---
layout:     post
title:      Group evolutionary strategies 
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - group-selection
---

How is the ability or and proclivity to lie relate to the group individual selection spectrum? One would think lives would be more individually chosen? lying in the group interest is a posibility though.

Certainly I can think of at least one group evolutionary strategy which is heavily contingent upon selfdeception and presumably also deception of others. There are certainly times and places and different groups of people who've utilized this to pursue group interests. So it's probably more common than you think. Actually. It's probably the majority of groups use deception, or tactical deception at the very least, to further their group interests.

Could it be argued that's what religion is, it's a combination of selfdeception and deception of others. I don't know if, I don't know about the selfdeception part but it could be, it could involve tactical deception of others to a certain extent, it says, it's a good question. People aren't really studying the sort of cultural dna of these group evolutionary strategies, and they should do, because these things are quite important, and they vary, and there's going to be a natural sort of spectrum among them. And you're going to see all these different traits like, you know, parasitism and symbiosis and commensalism and, you know, spite spite type interactions. You're going to see the whole gamut. This is D.s Wilson's position, is you're going to see all the different ecological strategies represented among the spectrum of human groups. And looking at what happens and when and why is a really, really interesting, really, really interesting question. And it's something that we just people just don't want to study. It's just very, very controversial. 