---
layout:     post
title:      Niche construction war between r and k strategists
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - strategic-interference
---

I'm an r strategist that forces a K lifestyle, Will I supper.

What you're doing is you're, you're running strategic interference on your own evolved strategy. So insofar as by doing that, you'll be setting up a gene environment mismatch, yes, that would be expected to have fitness costs. And it's interesting, because this is something k strategists are very, very good at doing, insofar as they are capable of inceptive niche construction, that is to say, building the environment. They like their rulegoverned environment. They don't like chaos. So when we see chaos, they impose rules on it.

What they're doing is they're running strategic interference on the, uh, on the fitness functions of those with faster life histories. And that's by design. Highly K selected populations will will deliberately run interference on the reproductive strategies of those with fast life histories because they don't want them around spreading chaos. So they, they will, they will force upon them. It will force them to go to school. They'll force them to abide by sexual norms. They'll force them to abide by rules and and, you know, not engage in criminality and things like that. And yes, in so far as they're made to do this, this sets up a a gene environment mismatch, which, which actually does, because we have data on this, um reduce their fertility. In modern populations, people with slow life histories actually have slightly more children, on average, from people with fast flight history. So we may be getting dumber, but we're also getting slower, in terms of life history.