---
layout:     post
title:      Tilted ability profile + life history on IQ peak
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - life-history
---

What if your crystallized iq is only a hundred and fourteen, but your fluid is is a hundred and forty three? How would you interpret this information? 

Okay, well, basically what that suggests is that you have a very tilted ability profile. So what it means is that there's one highly dominant ability, a group factor, which is really, really dominating your performance variance. And the other factors are relatively hyper underdeveloped by comparison. So you'd expect, not so much an absence of G in the sense of there being very little g, but an absence of G in the sense Determen's theory of G being, weak and absent at the same time, rather than just absent in the sentence there's very little of it.

So you can have individuals which have a positive manifold among abilities. And yes, it is, I believe, meaningful to talk about manifolds among abilities within single individuals. It's because you can operationalize these as continuous parameter estimates of covariance and things. It is meaningful to talk about people having more or less g in terms of their being weaker bonds between the different abilities. And it sounds like you, you fall into that kind of tilted character. Second part, by the way, that you're very, very smart overall, because this is consistent with something called spearman's law of diminishing returns, which is the idea g weakens with very high levels of visibility.

It could also be that the the the g becomes concentrated in one set of abilities. So about the mental energy that spearman talks about, his second mental energy...

The second part of the question is, would slower life history mean a later peak in fluid Iq and iq? Yes, I believe it would. Definitely. 

I did read that the the higher your iq is, the more plastic your brain remains for longer. As a matter of fact, this is something, by the way, I've been meaning to test for ages. Using the block and block data because you have kids measured at the age of seven through to 21. These are longitudinal measures intelligence. You just extract the g factor and you take the slope across the abilities, you model it like a latent growth parameter. And then what you do is you just correlate that with the participants life history. You get the entire super k out of block and block, I actually have a paper on this. So you can correlate their life history, speed of each of these individuals with like the rate of growth of Iq, and when it peaks. And you could work out if it reaches like an asymptote at different points in the life course, because you've got everything from 7 to 21. So actually we could test that. That would be very, very easy to test, and would give you a direct answer to your question.