---
layout:     post
title:      Genetics of genius - emogenesis
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genius
---

Can traits arise that are beneficial to the group, despite being maladapted to individuals another kin and their kin? Explain group selection? Explain how genius genes are spread?

This is the theory that i've developed. Basically, genius is a bit odd, because genius doesn't breed. True, it's a product of a a sort of contingent coupling of different genetic variants, which have a very, very low probability of being found in the same individual at any given point in time. And so there's a lot of luck involved in whether you get the right genetic elements sort of coming together to give rise to the genius. And actually, Eisink in his book, his 1995 book, which was called, originally enough, genius, identified 12 such traits.

And this process Jensen referred to in an essay he wrote in 1997, he called this emogenesis. And and the way in the genesis works is you have, you have things coming together that produce a phenotype with emergent properties which are wholly unexpected. So that's what emogenesis is. He argues that this is due to nonadditivity. So where you have these, these, these traits which have to come into linkage first and give rise to these discontinuous breaks phenotypically, they give rise to these people or individuals, with levels of traits which are totally different from anything that came before, essentially. So you have rare individuals made up of, rarely ever found in one person genetic variants, where those genetic variants are sort of jelling in such a way that's giving rise to a particularly amazing phenotype. Now here you have something that group selection can act on.

Because even though that individual, we know from historical data, we know from the data of Dean Keith simmons published a paper on this in 2003, that historically, geniuses have enjoyed very, very low levels of fertility. I believe I read somewhere that across all of the eminent men who have been recorded by sundry researchers, like Charles Murray, who's a whole list of them, he wrote a whole book on them, the tfr, the total fertility rate, I think, was 03, something like one child for every three of them. So very, very low rates of fertility.

And what this means is that the genius, not only do they not procreate through passing their genes on, but the nature of what they are prevents them from being able to do that, because when they marry somebody and have children, those coadapted or or those rare gene combinations will break up in such a way that means the offspring are likely to regress to the mean very quickly and not likely to end up as geniuses. So how does the genius pay for themselves fitnesswise? Well, what they need is they need to come from a large population that contains high frequencies of the various traits that go into creating that phenotype. 

So this might include a form of other worldliness. This is a term Bruce Charlton uses. These people are not connected or concerned with material things. They tend to just be concerned with learning and sort of post materialistic pursuits to be, often to the exclusion of sort of material concerns. You might also have a situation in which they have to have very high iq, plus a tilted ability profile. Plus they have to have uh high levels of certain personality traits that make them risktaking, but not too risktaking. So there's also a kind of altruism might need to be present, but make them very willing to sort of sacrifice themselves or the good of whatever big idea it is they're working on. And of course, the benefits to that could be huge, if it's a big idea that has major payoffs at the level of the groups boosting their competitive success.

So the way the genius is paying for himself is through his output. And his output is raising the corporate fitness of his host group. So innovations in map making, for example, from Mccarthur and these other geniuses, were giving the ability for empires to mark out new territory, to spread and to increase their biomass that way. Innovations in weapons design, like tata glia, for example, who calculated ways to estimate better aiming cannons by measuring flight, the arc of the parabola of the cannonball in flight. That gave his lot a huge edge over rival uh citystates in terms of being able to actually aim the cannon right and being able to kill large numbers of the opposing number.

So when the group expands, the raw ingredients for genius will also increase in number, because the more genes you have, the more likely it is you're going to get more of these genetic variants, and the more likely it is you're going to get rare combinations of these genetic variants. So that's how the genius is paying for themselves. They need to increase the size of the pool of raw material that goes into their creation. And if it's a low probability thing, if it's negatively frequency dependent, selected, they need a much, much, much, much, much bigger pool in order to increase their frequency, given that there is an opposing pressure, ie individual level selection, against them having children, which were called numbers. 

But he found consistent with what Francis bacon also noticed in, the uh, 16th century. Francis Bacon noticed that geniuses, uh, tend not to have very many children. Finland works so well because it doesn't have many geniuses, or many retarded people. 

And I think the this is how, this process of where a trade can be under, just to sort of recap it off, a process where a trait can be under negative frequency dependent selection within a group can increase or reduce the constraints on its proliferation by simply increasing the size of the group. Because when you increase the size of the group, you simply increase more of everything. More genetic variance for x, more genetic variance for Y, etc. And that means the probability of getting more of these rare, negative frequency dependent phenotypes increases. It's just, it's just a simple, mathematically scalable relationship. And that is that what's, that is what seems to be going on with geniuses. 

Although I will say this about geniuses, they do often come from families that produce geniuses. Although genius has low heritability. You see in the case of Gaulton's study, hereditary genius, for example. Or in a more recent study published in the 1940s, these british pedigree data to sort of corroborate this. These studies both found that generally, you get these runs of genius within these big families. So they're not breeding, true. Certainly runs of eminence.

You looked at, for example, the Scott family of Dublin. And there was, among them, there was a teacher at rugby. And there was the scott who was archdeacon of Dublin. And there was various other scots. Walter Scott.