---
layout:     post
title:      Cold winters theory is oversimplified
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - specialized-abilities
 - social-sexual-selection
 - human-evolution
---

Is there any real opposition to the cold winter's theory in 2019 Lynn becker book, and reading directly here, the question, uh, listed a bunch of nonissues, like inuits with larger brains, but lower means of general intelligence because of basically the spatial tilt that is characteristic of that population, the fact that it's too cold for farming. So the argument that, um, they were selected strongly for sort of spatial tilt. Uh, they even noted a study of skin tone versus Iq of 0.8 correlation. Sounds like the nail in the coffin for skeptics of cold winters, to be honest. It sounds as though the question now if, but when and where cold winters happen specifically.

So, I mean, i'll start by pointing out that there's actually a number of theories that might explain the large brain of inuits. There's a paper published in proceedings of a royal society b, a little while ago, which tried to tackle this issue, and they found evidence that actually it might be related to the need to be able to pick up on objects in very low contrast environments, such as environments where you have lots and lots of snow, and you tend towards a visual white out, so you don't actually see anything. And you need a specifically, very finely developed sort of visual cortex in order to pick up fine gradients of distinction within the environment. So it might actually have evolved as a mechanism for, wayfinding and location of objects, and being able to find your way back after a snowstorm when the snow has changed for landscape, Et cetera. So, that's one possibility, uh, to explain this sort of apparent decoupling, uh, in the case of this group. 

But as for cold winter's theory, I don't put much stock in cold winter's theory as originally sort of articulated by,  schopenhauer, and then Richard Schopenhauer, I believe, the first person to propose the theory. I think that, cold winters don't really do anything. Uh, what's happening is the cold environment, both in terms of the variation in the level of cold and also in terms of the absolute level of temperature, is part of a selected sequoia way. So it's the natural selection component in a kind of sequence selection events which lead to sexual selection going through social selection. So to really understand how all temperatures affect the levels of cognitive ability of a population, you actually have to understand how they affect patterns of social organization, because that is what's actually driving select cognitive ability within a population.

And also, I would say, yes, the cold, cold winter's theory is just a massive of simplification of what's very much there. I don't know it's on to something very, very broadly, but we have enough exceptions and enough things that don't quite make sense about it that you have to then go for something more more finegrained, as you say. And yeah, it's, first of all, you've got to take into account the stability of the ecology, the fact that there's seasons that are predictable. And this causes people to be selected for in certain ways. Not just the fact that it's cold, so it's cold in um, in greenland, or whatever, but it's basically really cold all most of the time. Uh. Where you've got these proper seasons, you end up being able to, end up having to um. There is a premium on being able to make predictions. This selects for intelligence, as you say, it selects for certain kinds of relationships as well. But it's a certain life history strategy, basically. 

I think is much more important than, even more important than that, is variation. So the variance in temperature.

Yes, exactly. That's what I mean, the seasons that you get. 

No, no, I'm talking about just the variance. So this, this is, this would basically be the, uh, the amount of variability throughout the year, the number of cold days versus the number of hot days and that sort of thing, which is not necessarily related to seasonality, but it would be related to it. But it, you can also have high variance, low variance, and still have seasonality. And that variance itself is a very potent selection factor, because that variance relates to predictability. Yes? Well, that's what I'm trying to do, intrinsic versus extrinsic mortality and morbidity. I even a degree to which mortality and morbidity your environment is controllable or not, theory, how predictable is the ecology. And that's obviously very, very significant in terms of the development of iq. 

But briefly, the degree to which temperature might have been an important factor shaping the selection pressures acting on intelligence, even in recent populations. So that is to say, populations living in Europe and America over the last 100 to 200 years. Because one of the main drivers that we have found on the socalled dysgenic fertility trend is, in fact, higher means of global temperature. And the way this works is the higher mean of global temperature, starting in the 1800s, really with the end of the maunder minimum, and you have this period of warming. The higher mean of temperature releases populations from ecological stress. It makes things milder. In other words, it produces conditions in which those who would ordinarily be vulnerable to high levels of mortality, people exposure, or famine, or disease, or or, you know, any other factor that can be linked to cold, and particularly unpredictable cold, and those populations now survive and thrive. And you end up with very large numbers of offspring being produced by those who historically would have been at a selected disadvantage. Given higher variation in temperature and lower means of temperature.

So cold winters isn't something that just happened 60 000 years ago. No, I assume that was widely understood by our, by our viewers. Well, it it. I just, it's a point worth reiterating. Well, you can, one can never iterate enough times. I think, yes, there is this idea that selection stopped on the Savannah, or whatever. And that's definitely, yeah, it's not. It's not just that people go further, so it went into the hollow scene. No, it's happening now. Um, it's, it's, it's happening when some of us choose to have no children, and some of us choose to have six children, or whatever. It's happening. It's happening. But certainly, at least once child mortality collapses, that that is selection. And to a degree, even the child mortality that we have is a kind of selection against certain traits. So it's happening now, and this is, and certainly it was happening intensely up until the industrial revolution, and in darwinian way. And this is worth stressing.

The other thing I wanted to note is the issue of group selection. So of course, once the ecology is more, stable and predictable and harsh, then this benefits the creation of tightly structured groups who work together and cooperate. And and this, this itself then is a factor in understanding intelligence differences, because the more intelligent group will be able to make weapons and things that are better, and is more likely to dominate. Yeah, that would also be another way. So, but the point is, about Cold winters theory, it's cracking a nut with a jet engine. I mean a very, very big hammer or whatever. There's an element of truth in it, but it's a very, considerable simplification of what's going on.