---
layout:     post
title:      Strategic interference
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - life-history
 - strategic-interference
---

I'll tell you something interesting about dungeons and dragons, though. the chap who invented it, we believe was a very good, intuitive psychologist, this guy, geigex or geigerrex. Because we, we have a project at the University of Arizona, and we've actually validated his neutral chaos, lawfulness, good, bad, axes thing. We've shown that actually there is a form of personality that he seems to have been able to measure or gotten at with his chaos notion, that there are people who are attracted to chaos, because it's one of the sort of polls you can play in the game. But we think is real. We think there are people who are interested in chaos.

And we think what this is a fast life history trait, because it's a form of niche construction that fast life history people do. If fast life history people thrive in environments are highly unpredictable, then, and they're there, they find themselves in environments which are highly lawful and rulegoverned and full of k strategists who are keeping everything predictable and regular. Then to maximize their own genetic fitness, what they're going to do is they're going to inject us into the system. So chaos is really just a manifestation of fast life history um inceptive niche construction. So so we've sort of, we we've tried to argue that there might be something that he noted in designing these, you know, these character traits in his game, that has been overlooked by psychology for about this first or the the new neurotic realists, this this movement of artists in the 90's of chaos. Yes, yeah. They like it. They it's desirable for them, because chaotic environments are the environments in which they can thrive. They don't work. So they don't thrive so well in environments which are, which are rulegoverned and stable.