---
layout:     post
title:      Average heritability of psychological constructs
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genetic-determinism
 - big-5
---

Heritability of big five traits, and extroversion especially?

 Um, there's all kinds of debate over the heritability of these traits. Um, there's better. Some find them very, very low, some finding high. The uh, based on how they're currently measured, which is by selfassessment, which isn't necessarily ideal. Um, the heritability, according to methodologies i've seen, is about 0.5. 
 
 So the heritability of all trades, no personality threats? No, I want to make a, I want to make a different point. The heritability of all trades in psychology that have ever been measured, right, is 0.49. So it's, so basically, if you pick 05 as your estimate of heritability, you are statistically highly likely to be accurate, because the average across all psychological traits is 0.5. So 0.49, but let's call it 05. So, yes, so it's a bit of a copout. But, yeah, the heritability of uh, personality dimensions is about 0.5. However, there are those, there are studies that have shown that, that, for example, conscientiousness is about 0.66 heritable. Now, whether there's outlier studies or whatever, the difference has been those studies, other studies the fight is low? I don't know. But there are some, as I say, that have found it to be, to be, to be somewhat higher.
 
 The gentleman asked about extroversion in particular. I'm not familiar with extroversion being less or more heritable than other traits. For you I know of no studies that have singled it out in terms of having sort of unusual properties, like, say, something like executive functioning, for example, where the heritability is 0.99, it's virtually 100%.
 
 So what what does this involve, for those who aren't familiar with that?
 
 Executive functioning is kind of a measure of the degree to which you can, sort of regulate and update cognitive behavior. So there's a couple of different measures of it. There's things like, control, attentional control, updating, sort of switching between tasks. These, these basic cognitive processes relate to this sort of frontal, you know, frontal lobe type structure, which is known in cognitive psychology as executive function it turns out that at least some measures of it are almost perfectly heritable. So I'm just using that as an example of a trade that's really, very weird that stands out in terms of having this extraordinary, extraordinarily high heritability. But, yeah, most traits, 0.5 extroversion. I strongly suspect that the heritability is 0.5.