---
layout:     post
title:      Problem with Christianity is with contemporary interpretation
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - religion
---

Opinion on Nietzsche's rejection of christianity. It glorifies suffering and victimhood. How can it defend against a conquering religion like Islam?

Well, it has defended against a conquering religion like Islam in the past. Um defended the gates of Vienna. It defended against a congregation like Islam. It seems to me that the the religion will be interpreted in an adaptive way if you're under high levels of group selection, and that's the religions the the society has adopted, it will be interpreted in an adaptive way, and the adaptive bits will be drawn out. And the the the bits that, when it began, it was an attempt, perhaps you could argue like romantic nationalism, or communism, or multiculturalism, or whatever, it was an attempt for people who were in the middle of society to gain status by virtue signaling and whatever. That wasn't an attempt to be a religion of an entire group. It was attempt for people within that group to attain status, by the way that the middle class always does, by intellectual posing and virtue signaling. It did that. It became the religion of the empire.

Fortunately, there was a large corpus of texts involved, and it was open to all kinds of interpretation. And so it was interpreted in a positive way, to not just be a means of to be really the jewish bit was stressed. We we became the heirs of Judah, jewish ideas about ethnocentrism and being the chosen people and whatever. And therefore it became an adaptive thing. Now, as we become less group-selected, and the church becomes infested with spiteful mutants and whatever, then you start to see it becoming a maladaptive force and a force in favor of destruction. I don't think there's anything inherent in christianity in that sense that's maladapted.

Equally, when Islam started, you can find bits in Islam which are like that. And you could which are maladap which are the religion of the middle people that are striving up and overthrowing mecca. And then as as Muhammad builds up an empire, then the nature of what he's saying starts to change, rather what Alla is telling him to stay to say starts to change, and it becomes more adapted as a group organization. 

Even within hinduism and other pagan religions, you can find these discourses. So, I don't think there's anything inherent in christianity that's a problem. It's inherent in the kind of people that practice christianity. And those people are increasingly mutated and increasingly kind of multiculturalist in a mitre.

I've become very interested in christianity, of late. I don't see anything intrinsic in christianity that lends itself to these, shall we say, episcopalian interpretations, or corruptions, depending on your frame of reference. The problem is not with the religion. It's with the people who are contemporary practitioners of the religion, who wish to use the religion as the vehicle to promote their moral and social agenda, which is often, deeply, deeply in variance with the actual, uh, religious teachings contained in the bible.

There's actually a very good example of this, the head of the episcopalian Episcopal church in America, who's a woman, she stood up and argued that Peter was having his privilege checked when he drove a demon out of a young lady who was enthralled for some demon in in this biblical parable. And, that he was actually jealous of her freedom or something. And and he realized the error of his ways.

And if you read the actual parable, is completely the opposite. It's nothing to do with that. It's about him saving people from a very bad situation which had arisen involving somebody being taken over by a demon. Essentially, it's very interesting that a spiteful mutant like that takes the side of the demon. This is literally what she was doing. It was literally the case that this was basically saying that Peter was wrong to have carried out his duty to God, which is essentially what the bible makes very clear he was doing. 

She's basically a witch. I mean, you the the the American Episcopal church is run by a woman, that that implies that has some sort of pact with Satan, and thinks that women who have been possessed by Satan, I women who are witches should be, should be left alone by godly people. And those godly people only want to expel Satan from them because they're sexist. I there's a very special and warm place reserved for that woman in Hell, I'm sure, with the demons that she that she so adores.