---
layout:     post
title:      Number 1 thing women look for in sperm donors
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - mutations
---

The number one thing women look at with sperm donors, much to the person who discovered this is surprise, is they pay more attention to the age of a donor than anything else. And, basically, if you're, if you're sort of over, I think, 36 or something, forget about it. You just will not have your sperm chosen by women under any circumstances. Are they? Is that because they've read the literature on this, or because they're just unconsciously...?

I think because at the level of evolved psychology they probably are aware that older men, more mutated sperm, more likely to produce offspring that have had problems in some way. It's probably just innate it seems that it would be an innate thing, because it's a recurrent problem. The problem of older fathers bequeathing higher mutations is something that is recurrent throughout the whole evolutionary history. Therefore, we may well have evolved some domainspecific machinery, or women may have evolved some sex typical, domain specific machinery, which actually makes them, this makes them skeptical of older fathers less likely to receive sperm from older farmers. 

I wonder if they would, if their immune systems would be able to detect sperm. No, it's not impossible at all that that immune systems could provide more of a challenge to the sperm of all the fathers, if those sperm are somehow reflective in terms of motility and concentration and other like cell surface proteins somehow reflect the intrinsic quality. So, you know, you have this idea that one of the reasons why for the evolution of blowjobs could be that women could taste genetic quality in the males. Those sort of theories, I'd like to see them replicate better. Evolutionary psychology theory, it's like, blow jobs, yes, they evolved because detecting chemicals or something. So I'm not wearing already tackles from theory. You know, I'm not aware anyone suggested that.