---
layout:     post
title:      Priming studies and p hacking
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - science
---

I will give a brief description of what priming is. Basically, in social psychology, there is a theory that, uh, people basically respond to specific cues in their environment by acting out and generating certain certain units of behavior. So, for example, there was some very famous work on the idea that litter, the presence of disorder in the environment, triggers white people into becoming racist.

Wasn't that the falsified research, that's right. And this is the thing, the biggest source of these sort of studies, was a chap called diedrich staple, who committed massive scientific fraud and has had over 50 of his papers retracted as a consequence, and his doctor I think, and his doctorate, which also contained fraudulent data. So essentially, that's the idea of priming. It's a very sort of pc friendly narrative friendly theory about the way in which individuals respond to social contingency by generating they respond to it in certain ways, which gives rise to all these bad behaviors.

So, another one, another thing he argued was that the thought of eating meat makes people selfish. So presumably, to stop people from being selfish, you you just make them vegetarians. Litter makes people racist. Therefore, to make people less racist, you have antilitter laws, etc, that kind of thing. And that's, that's really where all the priming work focuses on, it's very low quality social psychology.

If you make people less racist, will they be less likely to drop litter? I mean, what's the causation there? Well, this is the thing, I think the idea is that they have these models of the social psychological models of things like terror management and, unpredictability psychologies, which respond to unpredictability by seeking to blame people for that in unpredictability, which leads to other-ization and all this sort of thing, which in turn leads to racial discrimination. So on that basis the argument is that, yes, people are primed, essentially, by their environment into behaving in ways which and not good for society. 

But it turns out that these priming studies never replicate, and the ones which have been published are either cherry depict so a very good example of p hacking. You can see they have like, borderline significances, which is usually an indication that they've been hacked.

p hacking is when you have a whole bunch of effect sizes, and you basically pick the ones which are statistically significant by chance. Because that's what a pvalue is. It basically describes the percentage chance, the probability of your result having a certain percentage probability by chance. So essentially, you can think of it like a p of 0.05 means if you had five studies, one in twenty would produce a significant result.