---
layout:     post
title:      Recent Selection Pressures
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - evolution
---


Qualia is a kind of unit of subjective experience. Um, because there's no mutually agreed upon referential frame in which to discuss these issues associated with the socalled heart problem of consciousness, consciousness researchers have come up with this kind of copout term Qualia, which just describes an instance of experience. So I don't know about Qualia per se 

I assume they are talking about recent selection pressures acting on populations, versus, say, the adaptive selection pressures which shaped our uniquely human repertoire of evolved adaptations in the socalled environment of evolutionary adaptiveness, the sort of the pleistocene of, say, one and a half million years ago to 250 000 years ago.

And in that sense, yes, we're not really acquiring any new adaptations. We probably haven't acquired any new mental modules over the last a couple of hundred thousand years. Well, Peter Frost might disagree. He might say that the visual word form area would be a, possibly a new adaptation that these certain groups have and other groups don't. So what darwin might call a difference in kind rather than a degree.

But most of the differences between humans today are differences of degrees. If you say, racial variation, or continental population level variation, skin color, or, you know, cranial craniofacial properties, or psychometric differences, these are differences in degree rather than kind. So the early selection pressures acting on us might have made us different to an extent in kind from, say, other primates, in terms of us having different tools in our mental toolkit. This is what two being cosmetics would argue, is we might have some uniquely human, domain specific adaptations, which are unique response, adaptive responses the challenges encountered in our evolutionary niche essentially. But after that, differences among human populations would have arisen through sort of disruptive selection, causing divergence of populations leading to differences in degree among various populations. 

As for what we might lose over time. Well, I suppose, in the sense that hunter gatherer populations have very, a very different subsistence paradigm to weird populations, white, industrialized, educated, rich and democratic. This is the sort of acronym of art which has come to dominate this discourse, and they want something to describe industrialized populations, populations. I suppose you could say that we, we've lost some things, maybe, sort of like tracking skills and things like this. certain four aspects of spatial memory, that sort of thing. And we've gained other things, like the ability to incred do incredible acts of inceptive niche construction and build these complex environments that shield us from the environment at large and stabilize our environment for us. So, which means we can have the same environment all year round, irrespective of wherever we live. Even if we're on the moon, right? We can bring our constructed environment with us in the spacecraft and live in that for a bit. So that's something we've gained. And even if we've lost a few, sort of of these more basic skills that served us well in the first million or so years of our evolution.