---
layout:     post
title:      Higher K allocates more effort to morality
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - moral-foundations
 - life-history
---

Are conservatives more k or more group selected? 

I think this depends on how we define conservative. You see, I define conservatives as basically people who are balanced across Jonathan Heights moral foundations. So these are people who have high individualizing and high binding moral foundations. Whereas rightists, right, they're people who are high binding but very low individualizing. And lefties are high individualizing and low binding.

So the question is, does that till between binding individualizing, which I think your left right axis is in politics? Does that correlate with life history speed? The answer is no, because I actually have data on this. But what does correlate with life history speed is the overall level of effort that you allocate into the development of each of the moral foundations. 

So it turns out there's a general correlation between the moral foundations, which I call, hasn't been given a term, so i've just called it the general moral effort factor. And it turns out that, yes, that is correlated with K. But that makes sense, because think about it this way, if you are, if you are a slow life history strategist, you can be highly strategically pluralistic in terms of how you allocate your mojo, right, your bioenergetic resources. You could be a lefty, you could be a righty, you could be somewhere in between, but generally, you're going to be characterized by having allocated effort into the cultivation of these moral rulegoverned behaviors. You might not agree on which set of moral rules you choose to abide by, and indeed, there may be a certain irreducible pluralism among these moral foundations, which means, you you know, society is made up of these psychic is endemic negation among these irreducibly pluralistic values. But the fact is, each of those pluralistic manifestations of values represents a way in which slow life history, a polymorphism of slow life history, right, a moral polymorphism.

Fast life history invests nothing into the cultivation of moral morality. Not leftist morality, not centrist morality, not righteous morality, not nothing. Right? The best in nothing. They have no moral effort whatsoever, in the extreme, because they are adapted to unstable environments in which you can not afford to allocate effort into the cultivation of any kind of rulegoverned behavior.

So what you tend to do, if you're a fast life history strategist, is you are apolitical, and you do not participate in any kind of political behavior, like voting, civic participation, etc. You you would draw completely from it. And actually, if anything, you're more likely to be a barbarian at the gate, right? You're more likely to thrive when things are really unstable, and you can't actually have functional or transactional politics at all. So if you're going to be, if you're going to be inclined towards anything, it's going to be towards destabilizing the entire system and destroying any kind of moral order, whether it's leftist moral or the righteous moral order. You're just going to be a generic nihilist, right? So that is the access to like life history strategy.