---
layout:     post
title:      Celtic group strategy
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - british-ethnos
 - group-evolutionary-strategy
---

Why have the celts been defeated so often in history?

I'm not an expert on celtic history. I think the issue with the celts is the way i've seen them operate historically, as they're more sort of crafty, they don't so much get defeated. They they sort of end up invegaling their way into systems of power and taking over from the top. So a good example of this is Chapel James, James Dellingpole Rama, who is a british journalist who wed I both know. In relation to at our weights end, he coined a rather lovely term for the Uk. Parliament. He described them, as he described it as the scottish raj because at the time he was writing, scots basically controlled all of the major positions of influence within the british parliament, from the Prime Minister downwards. This is during the time of Gordon Brown, who was called dower scots Socialist, son of a presbyterian minister. And it seemed to, seems to be the case that historically, if you look at how the union was formed, this is the British Union, essentially the not the European Union, the union of four kingdoms. How this was formed with the formal act of union, but one which linked Scotland and Great Britain was, or whether Scotland in England and wales, Great Britain was Scotland and England and wales, of course, ireland having joined the United Kingdom in the 1800s. But the that original act of union, the one from the early 18th century, seems to have been instigated by scots who were trying to formalize the the the process of the union of the two crowns, which had taken place in 1603, which is where King James Vi sat on the throat boat the throne of Scotland as James Vi, and England as King james the first. And that process was informal and one of the reasons why the scots may have moved to formalize that, and they did. They were the biggest pushers of the union, much more certainly English were very leery of it. One reason they might have pushed for this formalization is because scottish colonies had failed in various places, like Nova Scotia. There were some attempts at setting up colonies in the 17th century in honduras or somewhere, which failed completely. And the scots decided that they were going to basically colonize England through taking over its administration and running it as a sort of formal empire. And that's, that's a position that's been put forward by, I forget the name of the chap it's a famous historian called who wrote a book called how the scots made modern Britain, in which he puts forward this thesis. And I know David Starkey, the historian, has described the scots, unlike the English, as being the most virulent imperialists. He sort of argued that they are very, very much of an imperialistic people. And if you look at the history of scots. That's actually true. They were much more imperialistic than the English. Were more mercantilistic, and used piracy as a mechanism for sort of affecting the parameters of their trade with other countries. They have mercantile policies and a pirate fleet, essentially going back to the days of sir Francis Drake. The scots, however, sort of formalized everything into an empire. And he had this period of informal empire. We had all these scottish backed and scottish funded companies, like the East indies company going over, the bank hsbc, which was a scottish bank, which set up in Hong Kong, was basically controlling large trunches of Asia. Yeah, as you say, it's very, it's very crafty, because there's a degree to which their, their influence in Britain is and in the empire, is far disproportionate to their numbers. Oh, yes, absolutely. I mean, scots are, you know, scots are very sneaky people. I'm allowed to say that because I am one. 

Well, you're not really, that's one side of success of a people. I means we got a question about this, which i'll look at in a minute, as well, in Hong Kong. And the success of the Han Chinese, particularly the Mandarin Han Chinese, can be evidenced by the fact that they managed to control this, basically this empire really, um, and and and to hold down all these other ethnicities, including ethnicities separate. This is within the hand group, for their own benefit. They're very clever. And you could argue the scots, to say it was extraordinary 20 years ago, the degree to which they had their own parliament and everything, and yet they were still controlling Britain. Uh. In, you know, England, um, they're just before, I mean, Disreport Power England, they're basically blocking brexit.

I don't think the scots are blocking brexit. I think that, uh, I think they, they might be. They might think they're blocking brexit, but we're going to see. I think, I think Britain might pleasantly surprise the world coming.

One thing I would say about the counts being defeated a lot is that there are many examples of the celts winning. It's just that in the end that they ultimately, for whatever reason, the those nations have not been overtly dominant. I mean, if we look at the history of England in the roman empire, you have keraticus about 50 bc, big rebellion. You have bodacia. There are various, various celtic people that have that have caused all kinds of carnage and and taken over control for all kinds of areas of the world, so of Europe. So, so I don't think there was, it's just, they were in it's ultimately, they were overtaken by their large neighbor saxons and even I suppose, yeah, within the civil war in the Usa. And the civil it was the celtic people that were on the losing side.

Yes, it's true. They, you see, one argument you could make is that in combat, direct combat, they're not successful. Possibly because scots, they are more of an imperialistic people. And I'm inclined to agree with Starkey's analysis of this. Actually, you can find records of this going all the way back to the ambassadors of Mary, queen of scots, who were reported to have said to the king of France in attempting to cement an alliance against the English. You know, the old enemy essentially was this alliance between the scots and the english, sorry, the scots and the french, against the English. One of the ambassadors was reported to have said that Scotland is an imperial Crown, literally. It has an imperial crown. At which point, apparently it was promptly poisoned. I think what they've done is they've perceived this alternative group evolutionary strategy, which is more like a market dominant minority strategy, in which they've sort of developed these specialties in terms of administration and things. Because this is where you find lots of scots, is in administrative roles and, uh, you know, in governmental roles. Not necessarily leadership roles. We're not necessarily the best generals or the best soldiers, but they are.

We need to, we need to produce a book together, our next coauthored book should be a Wee culture of critique.