---
layout:     post
title:      Differential psychology vs Evolutionary psychology
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - science
---

What's the difference between race science and evolutionary psychology? Both seem to share the controversial biology effects psychology?

Basically, what what you're calling race science, I would prefer you refer to as differential psychology, because differential psychology is the study of differences, okay? And this is the term given to the field by Hans Eisenk. And differential psychology concerns itself with the study of all human differences. So this could be differences between sexes, differences between ethnic groups, differences between social classes, differences between individuals, and even differences within individuals throughout the individual's life course. So sort of longitudinal or intraindividual differences.

So you have differential psychology, which concerns itself of the study of differences, and you have evolutionary psychology, which concerns itself with the study of what are known as human universals. So evolutionary psychologists are interested in the ways in which everyone is the same. Specifically, they believe that the study of human universals gives us insights into understanding the factors that shape the adaptive aspects of the human mind. So they think that it's these primordial adaptations, which they call modules, or of old psychological mechanisms, which all humans have in common. We all acquired this common sort of repertoire of mental modules, which form form part of our mental toolkit. And that what humans are doing in different parts of the world is, it's merely that different environmental factors, like the presence of burdens of parasites, or different sort of ecological stresses and pressures, are eliciting or evoking different sets of adaptations in different parts of the world. So more parasite stress makes you more xenophobic and more religious and more sort of insular and more, more prone towards consanguineous mating and more prone towards polygamy. Because the argument is that all of these things serve as part of a adaptive behavioral immune system that protects groups from contact of other groups that might be harboring novel parasites, and allows you to sort of concentrate genetic capital in terms of acquiring local adaptations to local diseases. Like a small advantage to inbreeding when you're running these coevolutionary arms races with these parasites.

But it's a very difficult problem that evolutionary psychologists have trying to make these mechanisms plausible, because they're trying to explain crosscultural variation using what is essentially a jukebox model. You can imagine a jukebox, and you push different buttons, and you play different records in the jukebox, and it's like the environment is pushing different buttons, but the records are already there, right? Those are the adaptations that everyone has in common, and they don't predict that these differences are heritable in the between group sense, or innate. But there might be these actual innate differences between groups having to evolve to different environments. And part of a way they've sort of protected themselves from this is to say, well, human evolution likely ceased, in terms of adaptive evolution, likely ceased, sort of 60 000 years ago in the pleistocene, and since then, all evolution has been cultural. 

And it's we now know that's a very, very erroneous view thanks to the work of people like uh uh hawks and harpending, and even gerhard Meisenberg, who was one of the first to sort of point this out back in 2003, that if anything, selection pressures on these relevant sort of axes of variation would have intensified over the last 30 to 10 000 years, especially in the last 10 000 years, which should have caused a huge range of genetic differences to arise within human populations in that time period. And that is pretty much exactly what we see when you look at the the archaeogenetic record, and you you look at the, you know, the the pattern of genes various things across different populations, you see there's clear evidence of these things and nonrandomly generated, which means, contrary to evolutionary psychology, selection is not just concerning itself with ways of making humans alike in terms of having the same mental toolkit. It's also concerning itself with adaptive specialization and radiation into micro niches, essentially, and adaptation to local, local ecologies. And and that's where the differential psychology perspective, when looked at with an evolutionary frame, essentially gives us, I think, the best and most interesting hypotheses to go out and test about explaining the origins of this variation we see among individuals and among populations in the world today.