---
layout:     post
title:      Deep creativity + naive credentialism
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genius
 - education
---

Geniuses tend to be cognitively specialized. What is unique about genius polymaths?

At the very, very basic level of knowledge, when you dig down deep enough into any given area of knowledge, you start noticing those elements, or those components, of the sets of those of that knowledge, which overlap with the sets of all the other sets of knowledge. So when you really, really dig down, when you're so specialized that you've got down into the weeds, essentially, of whatever it is you're doing, it's not too difficult to notice the transitivity between that very, those very, very deep, what I call consilience dynamics, of those factors that are sort of nonexclusive to the set of what it is you are studying, those elements that are shared with other sets. And once you've noticed those consilience dynamics, it's not too difficult then, to brush out, in a sort of polymathic way, and start picking up on what people refer to as the unity of knowledge? Those factors that engender the unity of knowledge.

So you get these, you get these mathematicians, for example, who got really, really interested in some obscure bit of mathematics, like, say, topology theory or something like that. And they got really interested in what your what you could do with higher dimensions. All of a sudden they realized that the solutions they were generating for these sort of knoty, convoluted topologies, frameworks within which you could unify sort of quantum mechanics and relativity through string theory, yes? And what they had actually done was they created these these spaces, these structures, like wucabat structures, and they have all these funny names, which originally started off purely as mathematical abstractions, which certain physicists, very smart physicists, looked at and went, well, hang on, we'll have those we'll take those, we'll use those as the basis for building space times which accommodate dimensions, you know, which have been compactified to very, very small planck scales.

And that's an example of where you can dig so far down into something that you start seeing this, this unity of knowledge. Another example would be Darwin. Read his 1871 book, and the origin of man. And you look at the you look at how he just branches out into humans, starts talking about human sociology. Starts, he uses the word evolutionary psychology. I believe his was the first instance of this term. He starts talking about adaptationism applied to understanding human behavior, all the basic elements of that field, essentially, you know, a century before E.O. Wilson, a century before Bob trivers, starting to notice this fundamental unity of knowledge. I don't mean to compare you to a certain person, shouldn't be named.

But the book is called the descendant of man. But, yes, we both started off in other subjects, and we've and we've moved into intelligence and hpd and and this, this kind of area. And I think I entirely agree that part of the reason for that is, as you go really deeply into a particular subject, then you start to see, you see the connections. And once you see these connections, as you say, the consilience, the unity of knowledge. And once you see them, you can't unsee them. That's the problem, you can't. You you there's a certain degree of pressure on you. In academia, it's just stay within your subject area. I remember my supervisor saying, don't look into this. This is outside your area, which is the study of fundamentals. Look into this. Leave it alone. But the problem is that you can't unsee it. And it becomes fascinating that this framework, that it never occurred to you was for doing anything other than dealing with religion, suddenly is relevant to intelligence, or relevant to the rise and fall of civilizations, or relevant to everything. Because that's the nature, of course, of considerations under E.O. Wilson's whole model, but the unity of knowledge. And that's why it's so fascinating when you get these people that say, are on comment sections, oh, how can you comment on this you you have a degree or whatever. And that just shows that they have a very sufficient understanding of whatever their subject matter is. Because only someone that has a superficial understanding could possibly think that you can't, that you can't, but that you won't go outside the area that you're that you're trained in.

Well, the issue is that there's a form of sort of pernicious antiintellectualism, which I call, for want of a actual term, naive credentialism. So, just playing devil's advocate for a moment, there is a certain face validity to the claim that one actually needs to be a, you know, but one needs to have irrelevant qualifications in order to opine on a given area of research. Fair enough, I'm not going to deny that. But by and large, people with degrees in biology are going to be at a position to opine on biology matters than they are on, say, issues related to astrophysics or is, issues related to, I don't know, um, you know, mathematics, or something far out, far removed from their area of expertise.

So generally, it sort of holds true enough most of the time that you can get away with making a claim that somebody who lacks a particular area of expertise in a particular area, as evidenced by a particular qualification, probably should not be relied upon as having high source credibility in terms of having a meaningful opinion on this, this different area.

However, this ignores the reality of, uh, of what you could call manifest expertise. That is to say, people who have manifest expertise in an area, which may have manifested independently of a particular, uh mode of accreditation, like a specific degree and any rational individual has to take that into consideration when making a judgment about whether this individual is you know, is able to talk about this, this issue of any authority. And there are plenty of examples of people who clearly have qualifications in one area and who've moved into another, and who have clearly made significant accomplishments in that area.

I mean, how can Jim Flynn pontificate on the flin effect? Exactly. James, when he did a political science degree. That's right. To give, to give a little background on Jim Flynn, for those of you that don't know about him and his particular history. In the 1960s, he was a radically oriented political scient psychologist, sorry, political scientist rather, who was, you know, very much a sort of radical 60s type radical. And he was particularly interested in Arthur Jensen's work, which at the time was very topical because of the Harvard Educational Review paper. And he was looking to disprove it. And his way of trying to disprove it was to prove that Iq was not stable across time. He wanted to show that if it could vary across time, it had no sort of crosssituational validity. Therefore, it couldn't be used to say much about anything about race differences, individual differences, or anything for that matter.

So he started digging around in the archives, and he noted a pattern. He noted that over times, with each iterative renorming of a given Iq test, the level of iq increased by about two to three Iq points. Now, instead of going, aha, well, Jensen is wrong. Jensen btfo, right?

Instead of doing that, what he chose to do instead was he developed manifest expertise in intelligence research. He actually started researching the field more broadly. And he started to realize that what he found might actually be a significant contribution to the field of intelligence research. And it was to that, it was in that that way that he positioned his finding. He read his early papers, papers from the 80s, his two papers and psychological bulletin he had one on global iq gains and one on Iq gains in the states. He doesn't say, this completely invalidates the concept of Iq. He says, no, this suggests something new. And something hither too Is going on with iq. Something is causing it to lose crosstemporal stability. And that's extremely interesting, has relevance to the issue of the permanence of race attainment gaps and things like that. This is a position he sort of changed his mind on gradually over the years. But, uh, but, but he developed this manifest expertise, and and now he is considered, quite rightly, a global, globally renowned expert on Iq testing, someone who's made a very significant contribution to that field. 