---
layout:     post
title:      Decentralized nature of Protestantism
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - religion
---

AI have heard the positive effects of protestantism for society with its decentralized nature. How can it be positive when there is no authority to stop spiteful movements, uh, from harmful interpretations? 

There are authorities in protestantism. There are authorities at the level of the individual. If you're talking about calvinism, where there's no overall, overarching structure, first of all, they do tend to develop some kind of structure. So in Calvin, let's say calvinism, you have the church of Scotland. You have some kind of macro structure of some kind tends to develop as different churches get to know each other. But secondly, you have authorities within the churches themselves. And assuming those people are highly religious, they will move against interpretations which they will consider harmful. So perhaps it could be considered a sort of more democratic movement, a movement from below, where they won't accept peculiar ideas that manifest within the church. They just won't accept it.

If it's some kind of free church, where it's just the pastor, we have to remember that the pastor is being paid by the tithes of the church members, and the church members will abandon him if he come and thus he will lose his livelihood if he comes up with peculiar ideas. And so I would think this would act as a pressure for him to be able to read the way the wind blows and ensure that that what he's saying is Congress with the what the people in the church are prepared to believe. And thus, under normal conditions of darwinian selection, group selection, whatever, where spiteful mutants are being purged. Anyway, when spiteful mutants manifest, although they can have some influence, of course, as they could at a societal level, there will also be movements against them.

And you see that historically, that when people try to take over churches with wacky ideas, they get chucked out, and they have to split away. And they get like Joseph Smith or someone like that. Not that I was saying what he would say was maladaptive, but it wasn't accepted among people that were free churches, among people who were these um ordinary churches, they wouldn't have it. And and he was forced to flee. So I don't think the fact that there's no overarching structure militates against the proliferation of bad ideas, necessarily. And the overarching structure itself become infected by spiteful mutants, and that would make them more spiteful as well, because then they come as influence. You could argue that the influence of these spiteful mutants is limited by the fact that there's no overarching structure. There's an overarching structure, then you can get more trouble.

Yes, I think that's, that's, that's right. Again, this goes back to the question i've asked about how one controls for, cheating in groups and makes groups effective in managing cheeters and also spiteful mutants with a different, different category of things, mathematically. And yes, the best thing to do is to have a rigid structure that regulates the behavior at all levels, essentially. And in the absence of that, anything goes. You have high variance of behavior. You have a tendency for the group to fist, you know, to break up into smaller groups. You get people with weird ideas coming in, so now you need to be able to control and police that. So having that internal structure leads to more, perseverant groups. If you look at the history of christianity, the most perseverant of christian groups, which is catholicism and orthodoxy as well, those things are have been around for a long time. Whereas protestantism, which is more egalitarian, based more on sort of leveling, based morning idea one can have a personal relationship with God, rather than having a sort of a more remote relationship mediated by levels of the sort of divinely ordained hierarchy.

That tendency tends to break down very quickly, which is why you have thousands and thousands of splinter groups that can broadly be united under the rubric of protestant. But you don't have so many splinter groups with the catholics. There's like the palmeren catholics that, I think one of the major splendid groups are one of a set of accounting groups. But I can't really think of any other real sort of, uh, you know, obviously lutheranism itself split up in catholicism. But I can't really think of a huge number of contemporary, nominally catholic splinter groups can you? compared to protestantism, virtually every church in America. 

Palmerion is the main one, and then the there are various groups. This is about within the church, like the society of pious the 10th or 12th, or whatever it's called. But, Sspx, the society of pious the tenth. There's a man in Kansas that claims to be Pope. He has about five followers. There's lots of people who claim to be Pope. There's quite a few proclaiming so I think the most credible one is the palmeira one, because that's the, uh, it's the major, it's a few thousands. I heard that one of their popes was caught shagging around and had to resign. The the second that there's a new pope there. The previous Pope was caught with that decided he wasn't palmerian anymore. And he was, he was shagging around. It was all very naughty.