---
layout:     post
title:      Big picture thinkers increasing rare
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genius
---

How can we take a scientifically holistic approach? I assume that means like consilience or something to solving problems, to prevent experts focusing too much on specialized areas, but neglecting unknowns?

Okay, that's actually a very good question. And this gets into the issue of sort of integrative thinking, and why it's so important and rare that people are the it's, it's very unusual to find people who are naturally big picture thinkers. I'm convinced it's something that's becoming rarer and rarer and rarer. What you get is super specialization. And you see the super specialization everywhere. It's the main engine of economic growth. Because, of course, you have, you know, micro innovation is mostly driven by people becoming very specialized, taking a particular product, like an iphone thing, and going, we'll just take the cable off of the, off of the airpod and make a, like, a mobile version that you can stick in the air and use as a, you know, a wireless thing. And that's an innovation of sorts, but it's only a very small step up from the version, which had a long cable connecting it to the computer. And it's not entirely clear, but it's necessarily better than that either. So that's micro innovation. But macro innovation really requires this kind of massive, big picture thinking. And it requires a lot of foundational science to be there, which was developed in a noninstrumentalist way, I just with a view to developing pure foundational science. And it's very rare to get people who think like that. And the vast majority of people, including academics, are just hyper specialists, and they're very content to just specialize on in one thing, and just focus and drill down to one thing. And I can't, I'm not like that at all. I'm a big picture thinker. 

We're interdisciplinary thinkers. And it's very, very unusual that studies do seem to indicate that when big breakthroughs are made, it's usually interdisciplinary things.

Also, I'd add that if you it actually makes it a problem to get a job in modern day academia, if you are an interdisciplinary thinker, they will accuse you having a, you know, an eclectic publication list and and this, this sort of thing. They won't understand. 

Someone said that to me once. They said it was another academic, and they looked at my, they were looking at my cv, and they said, your, no, my Google scholar page is your publication record is very eclectic. And you could tell by the by the tone of their voice that it was not meant in a positive way. So I just responded, well, *thank you* for noticing. Yes, indeed it is. Because that is really beautiful. That is the essence of good science.

It would be awful to have noneclectic publications, publications, because that would imply you weren't engaging in consilience, and you weren't making connections, and you really weren't doing anything original. So let's, let's, let's put it this way. I think, I think maybe a slightly less charitable way of looking at this is to quote Darwin, who, in his 1871 book, the descent of man, said that many lineages bear the indelible stamp of their lonely origins. And I think that is true of many of these career academics who can not do anything other than become hyper focused specialists in some area or others.