---
layout:     post
title:      Gene editing mutations out
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - science
---

I can convince my light equating says that technologies like crisp r would be completely legal and minimally regulated. I don't know what that is.

CRSPR is a form of gene editing technology which allows you to actually target specific, uh, specific repeats or specific sequences in the genome and remove them, um, using, uh, I think some kind of restriction iso enzyme or something like that. Um, this is a bit after my time, actually. We didn't have crispr when I was doing wet lab work. Uh, we had other primitive waves of editing genes, but no, crispr is this kind of new thing. And one possibility is that crispr has significant therapeutic advantages, because it can be used to edit genomes, very early on, prior to, basically prior to conceptions at the level of the germline. Uh, it can be used to remove new mutations, because it's very good at being able to do that.

Apparently some Chinese, chinese team have already produced some babies that are crisper babies, which have had mutations removed. And apparently they're doing fine. If this is to be believed this isn't more sort of chinese junk science, um, which it could well be, because there's a lot of scientific fraud in China. Unfortunately, it's very secretive. We don't know what's really going on there. So as a result, I don't know, uh, I i don't know how you convince people this is a good idea. I think there might be other technologies. I'm working on some intellectual property at the moment, which is kind of like doing crispr, but without crispr, without doing any gene editing at all. Actually, it's a, it's a very interesting technology. 

I'm not going to give anything away because I'm trying to get venture capital funding for it, but, but basically, it's, uh, it would do the same thing as crisp, a functional it just uses an entirely different mechanism that's completely nongenetic. So it might be that if an idea like mine, or a similar idea, actually, uh, takes off, we can do this kind of gene editing, about the need to do the gene editing, in which case there shouldn't be a problem introducing this technology to the marketplace, right?

But would be great, it would be fantastic if we could legalize crispr, because that's how you could get rid of spiteful mutants very, very easily, how you can convince them. So you can convince them by saying, get responsible mutants. Maybe you convince people by simply appealing to the fact that nobody wants, nobody wants to have a kid born with extra fingers or extra eyes, right? So you just say, these mutations are building up. We have all this data showing that they're accumulating, that the normal mechanisms that filter them out of the population broken down, right? That they're building up. They're leading to increases in all these diseases, psycho pathophysiological abnormalities and things. And it's making people unhappy and, you know, stressed with mutations. And it's causing such societal dysfunction.