---
layout:     post
title:      Preparedness and Plasticity
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - social-epistasis
---

Will we become too mutated to survive preindustrial conditions?

Well, the research on the mice indicates that when you, when you take away all the, all the problems, then things go okay again. 

The sort of issue is that in theory, if mutants were that influence on a population were to be curbed in some way, so, you know, they would be removed from the population and put somewhere else, uh? Then, yeah, you tend to get a rebounding effect. And that's what has been found in, in nice models of the social stasis amplification model, is that the actually taking the mutant, the ones which have the knockout for the Nlg n3, and flipping it so it reactivates, all of a sudden, they're now expressing energy. You you put them back in, and they start to have a, like, a positive effect on other mice, rather than a negative effect. So, yes, if the mutations are silenced or purged in some way, then, yeah, in theory, the the sort of the population will just default to its previous, stable behavioral state.

Mice are much more instinctive than us and much less subject to the influence of environmental factors. And so could that be a problem?

I disagree. I disagree with that. I don't buy this thing you talk about instinctual. That doesn't make any sense to me. What do you mean by that? Uh, well, I mean that a wasp will behave in a wasp will behave in a kind of a wasp kind of way, pretty much no matter what. Whereas a more complex thing with a more complex brain, yeah, we have to be taught to talk. We don't automatically do so. And if we're not taught to do so, we don't do so.

But our ability to talk is a function of innate learning. Language is purely acquired on an instinctual level. This is the basis of Pinkers as work on the language acquisition device. But if you don't think, what do you mean by an instinct? That's what I'm getting at. I mean, so would you define an instinct?

I mean, something that you would do kind of automatically without really thinking about it, so you wouldn't need to be talking.

we pick up language automatically. We're not taught languages. But if you're put in an environment where there's nobody teaching you a language, then my understanding is that you, you, you you can not. There's a, there's a window of time where you can learn a language, and then you kind of can't.

You can actually turn anything into a language. Anything that has information can be turned into a language. Cognitive ability. They can't. There's a window of time where, if a person's, let's say, death, is not exposed to other deaf people or whatever, thus permitting them to, um, create a kind of sign language. Then they don't. They can't learn these things. Yeah.

Okay, well, here's the thing, instinctual behavior. This is a very old term from ethology, from the time of people like comrade lawrence. Instincts are basically inborn tendencies. And inborn tendencies can take the form of innate learning capacity, such as the ability to pick up language passively. Because babies pick up language passively. They don't, there's no active component to the learning. So language acquisition will be instinctual, essentially. This is, of course, the subject of a big controversy in the 1970s between the skinnarian and behaviorists who thought that language had to be learned through conditioning. And this was the basis of skin as verbal behavior. And of course chomsky's criticism where he argued that, no, it's actually innate.

But the there are other kinds of ways in which instinctual behaviors can manifest, and that's through what's what Mary West Eberhard refers to as evolved, preparedness. So this would be the tendency to be prepared to execute a particular behavior in response to a very narrow elicitor that is matched to the domain of the behavior. So a good example, fear of snakes, right? You don't need to learn to be afraid of snakes.

That's why that would be an instinctive.

Language is also an instinct in the same way, because language is acquired, the mechanisms that give you the plasticity to acquire language are mechanisms which are for which you are highly prepared. Their operation is mandatory. They operate on the basis of a universal grammar and an innate syntax. And they construct the language from, you know, the things that they stochastically sample from their environment using a proprietary system. Don't require any learned mechanism. It's all prepared. It's all inbuilt

So something that does require a learned mechanism would not be an instinct then, would it? So, for example, anything that relates to the ability to, say, solve contentfree problems. So what I mean by content is a problem is contentfree if that problem is actually devoid of any kind of very specific sort of uh, pro you know, illicitor. Like a snake corresponds to your snake module, and the mapping of the snake onto your innate sort of sense of the snake is trigger sphere of snakes, right?

All I mean is that certain things, as you say, and we agree, are instinct, are becoming more instinctive than others. Is that? Is that a fair enough thing, or more innate, more inbuilt than others? Well, yes. So would it be the case that that, in that sense, more behavior of, let's say, ants, is inbuilt than is the case with human behavior?

I disagree. You don't agree with that. So would there be anything else? Would there be any species in the world that where behavior is more inbuilt than in another species? This is the thing, answer are actually capable of massive amounts of social variation, and they're capable of collectively intelligent behavior. I don't care what the example is.

Would there be an example of an animal that would be more, in the sense that we're defining it instinctive than us?

I think maybe something that lacks a central nervous system, or lacks even rudiments of plasticity, like a plant.

So but then would it follow that, if the nervous system is the key, then if one species has a more complex nervous system than another, then you can start making the kind of comparison that I'm attempting to make. It's capable.

What I'm trying to do is get you to use the correct terminology in terms of preparedness and plasticity. And I think you're right. But I just want to make a point. But you're right when you talk about plasticity. More complex organisms are more plastic. 

I'll use the term instinct. I'll put brackets, which is often called plasticity, but I'm going to call it instinct.

No, no, it's not often called plasticity. Preparedness corresponds more closely to the classical ethological concept of instinct. Plasticity corresponds more to the idea of what are called domain independent systems. Okay, so these are systems which can process contentfree problems like gene general Intelligence. There's no preparedness when it comes to solving an Iq test.