---
layout:     post
title:      Niche breath measures success in intergroup competition
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genius
---

The idea is that there could be a variety of different group selected strategies that could be pursued. And if you look at my latest video that I put on to the channel yesterday, I show how you can actually model the differences in group selected strategies by looking specifically at the comparing the british and the french proportions of the world's populations, and comparing both of those ratios to one another, and then taking the variances for each of those proportions and using that as a measure of niche breadth, essentially.

And you can see that in the case of the british empire, as the variance increases over time, the french, for the french population, the variance decreases. In other words, the french become more specialized as a way of essentially adapting to the dominance of the British during the rise of the british empire. And this is measured using the proportion of britannic, ethnically britannic people, versus the rest of the world's populations, essentially using that as a very pure type 2 group selected phenotype. 

What what I predict is that under conditions where you have very high variance characterizing your group level fitness, not it's not just a high mean, but also high variance, you would also tend to have higher risk taking strategies being encouraged or promoted within the group. This would include, for example, producing these very rare genius type individuals, who might be quite costly unless they innovate in such a way that benefits everyone in the group.

Versus the french strategy after the napoleonic war, when they started to collapse, which is to just specialize in doing one thing, which might be a bit more like the Finns might be a strategy that actually discourages, uh, extreme phenotypes.

So presumably, then, as we are under lower levels of selection, we are under lower levels of group selection. Therefore there would be less of a need for geniuses, he's saying, and therefore there will be less selection for such people. 

The geniuses is a consequence of emogenesis. So this is a consequence of multiplicative benefits to having rare alleles coming into physical linkage with one another in the course of recombination. And what this means is that the raw ingredients for genius are going to be quite rare. And to get them right, to get them fine-tuned within one person to the point where you get sort of right resonances among the different among the different genes to produce these very unusually talented phenotypes, is even rarer. So what you're really looking at there is a situation in which where the gene, where the population, increases in size, and where that increase is driven sort of fundamentally by what could, you know, broadly be called a eugenic fertility pattern where you have high iq and related traits being promoted, uh through selection, rather than reduced, then you get a situation in which you can actually increase the likelihood of these rare phenotypic components arising, and therefore the likelihood of even rarer combinations of these phenotypic components.

So therefore, under conditions of dysgenics, you are reducing the likelihood of these geniuses. You are reducing, yeah, and you're doing it twofold. Because a dysgenic condition is characterized not just by individual level selection favoring traits which are quite obviously not conducive to genius. They might be conducive to a lot of things. They might be conducive to to becoming a sort of silicon Valley tycoon, or they might be conducive to becoming a sort of major youtube celebrity, but they're not conducive to sort of producing eminent works of science, which requires a sort of a weird kind of selflessness and and almost a selfdestructive desire to just acquire knowledge for knowledge of sake, and work on a subject until your fingers are bloody, basically. That's, you know, that's what characterizes the geniuses.

So those traits are not being favored. And as a result, the group selection is absent, and you have high individual level selection. This results in the overall group fitness decreasing. So every pool of raw materials needed to produce the geniuses are decreasing as well, further and exponentially reducing the likelihood of these alleles coming together in these rare and emogenic ways.

And I would add that as that happens we are suppressing the genius at an environmental levels as well. So we, yes, it's not exactly we don't exactly go out of our way to encourage individuals who are, shall we say extremely unconventional and risk taking in their intellectual pursuits. Quite the opposite in science, the emphasis is very much on promoting a sort of conformity and getting people to adhere to certain fashions and standards and modes of authority and conduct and things like that, rather than encouraging any kind of real innovative thinking around the subject. And we discussed before some of the reasons for this. 

Female dominance in academia. As intelligence goes down, you have to aim it, you have to aim everything down, which will make these kinds of people bored and make them unable to deal with it and whatever, and drive them out. You have to be more conscientious and rule following, which, which they're not, and whatever. So there's, as I see it, the universities are on their way out. It's going to be the invisible colleges that are going to be on, as has discussed before, that are going to be on the right