---
layout:     post
title:      Problems with intelligent design theories
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - science
---

Have you read Steven C. Mayer's works, Darwin's doubt signature in the cell. As an intelligent layman? I think they make the brackets nonreligious intelligent design case very well. 

I actually met him on one occasion. He's a nice guy, by the way. Had drinks with him. He's a perfectly friendly chap. But, he and I do not see eye to eye. And part of the problem with the sort of demsky mayer, that whole bayhe, is another one, Denton is another one, the whole sort of ID crowd.

The problem is that what they like to do is they like to find things which look very complicated, such as bacterial flagella, which are these little rotary proteins that drive the whiplike action of the tail and bacteria and allow them to move around. And they look for this sort of complexity, and they look, they look, you know, lipids, for example, though they're currently fixating on lipids, all of these lipids these so complicated, how could they possibly have arisen. And then they like to say, oh, well, because we can't imagine a way in which those structures arose from preexisting structures, which might be more simple, we therefore invoke intelligent design.

So that's essentially what a lot of these people are doing. And that's what mayer is doing in his work. He wrote a paper actually, which caused a huge controversy. there's a chap called Richard Sternberg, who I also know, who's an editorinchief, with a magazine, the Washington natural history science journal or something, and he was its editorinchief. And, he published a paper by Mayer. And that paper was basically an attempt to use sort of the cambrian explosion as evidence for intelligent design. Because his argument was, these new body forms arose from nothing, so therefore there's no evolutionary process that can account for that. Therefore it must be, due to some ex creationx nilho type thing.

And again, it was just sort of degenerative. You know, this whole thing is degenerative in this lactosh sense of a term, by which I mean the they're trying desperately to find these gotcha moments like, massive new fossil diversity arose here. Darwin can't explain that, over this complex thing is found in nature, which is, you know, reportedly irreducibly complex. And, oh, no, Darwin can't explain that. What they're not doing is saying, well, here's our model, and here are a bunch of things we explicitly predict, which darwinian theory doesn't predict. And as a consequence, we can better account the things in the world than they can.

They're constantly trying to very, very, very small anomaly which is likely to be explicable within a darwinian or naturalistic framework, if you, if you, if you have all of the information, which you've don't. Yes. And they said they presented to you out of context, like, oh, I don't know, a piece of ancient jewelry was found within a lump of coal, or something like that, OOPArt, out of place artifacts. 

What The questioner is, is is arguing here is regarding specifically, the much more sophisticated claims made by proponents of intelligent design theory. So these would be people who actually have an understanding of biology. Many of them are credentialed. They have real doctorates, some, in some cases very significant institutions and universities. They have professional organizations such as the Discovery Institute where they, they sort of hang out, which is like a theater tank that's privately funded. And these individuals, they're sophisticated and, some of what they're saying is so sophisticated that even evolutionary biologists who look at it might go hang on a minute. Maybe they have a point because it's based so heavily in what looks like a competent understanding of evolutionary theory, or or some other body of theory that they want to challenge.

A very famous example of this of the polonium halos. So this idea of polonium halos in rocks. So the wave polonium decays, and it forms these sort of radiogenic halos. There's a very, very clever researcher who who actually published some papers in nature and science on this. And then he came out and said, well, based on all this, we can conclude that the universe isn't anywhere nearly as old as cosmologists say it is, because of the decay of polonium. And that actually got a lot of people very excited. It turns out he's wrong, but it got people very excited. These are very sophisticated people.

I wouldn't disrespect them out of hand. I like the way that they have this by virtue of being religious or whatever, which they normally are. I mean, it's normally a way of rationalizing their own religiosity to some extent. They they have this outside of perspective on things which most scientists will agree on, all these things they don't. And so therefore they can come up with some potentially original things, often without realizing it. And so I quite, I quite like that. That's good. God did it. Science is more complicated than saying, yes, 

You're right. Every now and again, they actually come up with something interesting. And a good example of this is Michael Denton, who published a paper in nature and then another one in the journal of theoretical biology, on something he called platonic molecular molds. So he was trying to explain the origin of protein diversity, and it turns out this sort of 20 configurations that proteins can have. And he argued that these configurations are not a function of natural selection. They are a function of the operation of natural law. So in other words, there are these physical constraints on proteins which cause them to always fold into these specific geometries, a bit like how crystals form. They're governed by laws of form, not laws of biology. And he was arguing that this vehicle means that there's this role of a space, essentially, in biology, for the operation these lawlike processes, these natural laws. 

And I think he's absolutely right about that. Yeah. Well, it is absolutely 100 percent right about that. But he doesn't disprove Darwinism. That's the thing. It's mentally it just means there are some nondarwinian mechanisms that, at certain levels of aggregation, play an important role in terms of governing the origins of biological form. It doesn't mean that God did it right?

No, it's a general trend though. Dean simmons has looked at this, that it's often these outsiders that come up with quite interesting things in a particular field. People aren't actually educated in that field. You get that again and again and again. I mean, the person that cracked linear b for example, was an architect, and he has no formal training in linguistics, and he used his training as an architect, methods that he learned there, that that was how he cracked it. So it's true. I wouldn't dismiss them. But they are wrong about Darwin.

Seth Roberts, a very good friend of Bruce Charlton's, he was chappie, came up with the shangrila diet, basically out of the flavor Calorie Association. He wrote a bestselling, New York Times bestselling book called the Shangrila diet. He gave up a 10year position as a social psychologist at Berkeley. He was a health nut, and he was found dead on a mountain in China the age of 50. He'd gone hiking and disappeared, and three days later they found his body. But he had this wonderful term for people who follow that that description, Ie, these these domain regressive or domain progressive types, people who go into a field from outside of it. He called them, he called them insider-outsiders. Knowledge of insiders, but they come from outside, so he called them insider-outsiders.

He was a very good example of this. He made big contributions to the field of nutrition studies, and he gave up a position in social psychology to take on a professorship in nutrition studies.