---
layout:     post
title:      Number of gene variants in intelligence
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - iq
---

Steve Hassou, 2011, Google tech talks presented on genetics intelligence. So the 60 percent of Iq heritability that is additive would be solved within five years from Gwas studies of a million people. That rapid progress clearly hasn't come close to happening. Whatever happened to that study? Was it shut down? Or was his estimate overly optimistic? Whatever happened to those gwas studies out of the Beijing Genomics Institute? I was expecting something to come out of those, collecting thousands of dna samples from 150 Iq people plus, in chinese universities. 

A million is the sample size of educational attainment on gwes, his estimate was too optimistic. There are way more variants of small effect than he had thought of.

Originally, Steve Hsu published a paper on bioarchive, which is the preprint server for general biology, in which he estimated that the genetic architecture of intelligence could be accounted for in full with around 10 000 variants. So if that's the case, then, yes, a sample size of about a million should get you to pretty much the totality of the fraction of the heritable variance that is due to genes with additive effects. However, the problem is that if that estimate is off, which it looks like it might well be, the the actual number of genes involved in intelligence may be a double or even triple that, then you're going to have a great deal of trouble accounting for those variants, even with very large samples. Now, the most recent paper on this was Lee Ethel and Lietel 2018 in nature, were able to account for 10 of the variance in Iq and related phenotypes such as educational attainment. And in sort of composite measures which combined Iq test scores with cognitive functioning tests, with selfreported excellence in mathematics, with educational attainment, etc. So sort of a global cognition measure, they're able to account for 10 percent of the variance in that using a one million, one hundred thousand, individual strong sample. So it's just a case of the initial estimates having been off, basically.