---
layout:     post
title:      Science for IQ decline
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - dysgenics
---

Could one clone a sample of Victorians from corpse dna to test their adult iqs? Would this be the nail in the coffin for the G Decline debate

Why would you need to clone victorians and bring them up to maturation? Why not just sequence their genomes and look at their polygenic scores? Because in theory, you could. We have polygenic scores, we can actually tell approximately how smart somebody was based on the frequency of specific variants in their genomes. We do have data actually, on historical populations in iceland and the Uk, which show that old people, even when you control for the the mortality differential between high iq and low Iq people, you still get a situation in which older cohorts, net of that, have genomes that are more enriched that these variants. They have higher levels of these polygenic scores than younger cohorts do. 

You can actually calculate the Iq decline on that basis. And there was a paper which came out recently, very recently, by Abdul Allah et el. came out in nature human behavior. And it looks at the Uk. Biobank, and they found among people in the late 30s through to the 90s, which is a area where you get relatively little age sort of cognitive attrition. And if you, if you calculate, they didn't do this, but if you actually convert the polygenic score decline into an iq equivalent in the case of Britain, the Iq decline is between 0.6 of a point per decade and 1.2 points per decade. And that's based on whether you assume a missing heritability of iq of 0.4, or whether you assume missing heritability of 0.8. Very similar numbers in iceland as well. It's between 0.3 and 0.8 of a point per decade. So we actually already have the genetic data that show that genotypic iq, or genetic g, or whatever you want to call it, has gone down over time for genetic reasons.

So in a sense, you could argue that that debate has been put to bed. And the actually says, he actually says in the paper that one of the probable causes of this is differential fertility favoring people with lower iq. So this team are fully aware of the fact that this trend is at least in part driven by dysgenic selection. They even state as much in the table.

We don't need to go around digging up bodies, sort of, or whatever. We don't bother with that, like those two chaps edinburgh, those body snatchers. Well, it would be good to have, it would be good to sequence remains, like, for example, the carnal house in verdan, which is where a lot of World War II, sorry, world War one, soldiers who died in World War one were buried. They they were just basically put into these carnal houses. And they represent a very good transect of the sort of flower of Europe's youth, essentially. So it would be good if you want to do really tight age matching, and you want zero confounding with cognitive attrition as a function of age, you and you want a really big sample, we're talking hundreds of thousands of people, possibly millions of people, you can sequence the remains, and you could actually do a group comparison between an equivalently matched massive contemporary sample, like from the Uk Biobank, plus a whole bunch of other sources. So it's perfectly possible to do this, and indeed, it sort of has been done already. So we already know the answer, that the genes are getting scarcer over time.