---
layout:     post
title:      Left uses Incel to create climate of fear
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - politics
---

Will this cause collapse before G declining recession? I don't understand any of this.

How people can be technically in cells in the us? I think the term incel is more of a kind of like a leftist psyop, right? It's a term that's used by the leftists to to create a climate of fear around the idea of the very pissed off young men of military age, who are underutilized in the workforce and priced out of the mating market due to unrestrained female sociosexuality. The lefts sort of solution to this is to come up with a label for them, and make out that they're all dangerous, derange, terrorists, and they're just waiting to cause trouble. And it's, they're full of toxic masculinity, and they need to be controlled or curbed or shamed or or neutered or something.

They need to be made to feel excluded and angry. That'll work.

So actually looking at the real, sort of sociobiological roots of the problem, insofar as there is a problem, the the idea is to try and make it worse by insulting these people and sort of making out that they're losers. Which is synonymous with loser.

The kind of labor party policy before the election, just in insult workingclass whites, have a go at them, tell them they're bad, and then hope they vote for you.

But the thing is, we we all know how this works out at the end of the day, because what did those, what did those those gammons up north do to labor? They gave them a likes of which they haven't seen since 35 and I suspect similar things are going to happen in the states in the upcoming election. I think things are going to change very quickly. So basically, if you piss off and alienate the majority of people, then what you end up doing is getting kicked out of power. And that's, that's what happened in Britain, and similar things, I think, will happen elsewhere. 

But his question was, um, will this cause collapse before, oh, I see what you mean. So, so so having, uh, having a minority of a would it cause lots of inter male conflict and violence? And before the G collapse, the g decline causes collapse?

It won't be a sudden collapse though. I mean, we use this word collapse as a metaphor really. I mean, you can talk about the population collapsing 65 million years ago on earth after the asteroid hit it wasn't overnight that dinosaurs died. It was a slow process over presumably millions of years, certainly thousands when when the dinosaurs gradually couldn't compete and died out. So it'll be this slow process. I think we're part of it. I mean, I think we're in it. It's happening. It's not in the future. It's the collapse is happening.

Will it speed it up? Is the question. And I would suspect yes. It will help to create lots of conflict. And conflict will help to destroy the efficiency of the education system. And this is what happens in basically a situation of war. If you look at the literacy of England over time, rates go up over time. But there are interesting humps and bumps where people stop learning to read because they stop going to school. And examples of this are generations that were born that were young in the civil war, for example, in England. And around about there in the mid in the in the crisis in the Mid 1500s. In the crisis in the Mid 1600s, literacy rates go down. Because if there's a crisis and there's lots of conflict, then people stop sending their kids to school and whatever. And you can see this in the countries like Sudan and Somalia as well. They used to be much more literate than they are now. So so, yes, I would think it would, it would be a contributory factor that what we've basically created...

I mean, there was a book I was reading recently by David Burash called out of eden. Not a very good book, one of the things that he does argue is that, obviously monogamy creates this stability. Monogamy is based around patriarchy. Undermine patriarchy, you undermine monogamy, you undermine the stability. And you get this situation, which is seen even on these websites, tinder, that the women always swipe right or swipe left or whatever. The women are only interested in 20 of the men. All the women can get somebody, unless they're really rough. But, the men, they're only interested in the top good looking chaps like myself.