---
layout:     post
title:      We cant go to the moon anymore
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - civilizational-declension
---

I referred to it in in a paper I published in 2012, is generalized technological regression. So it's you get to a point at which innovations are lost. A good example of this is, this is where it's absolutely stunning, is in the case of moon landing. You know, we couldn't build a saturn v rocket. We're not actually able to do that. Now, the machinery the the technology, the engineering is not present. If we needed to build a saturn 5 launch vehicle to put a large payload into space, like an atomic weapon, the purpose of asteroid defense, it's one of the few vehicles we could actually use to get something like that out beyond the moon, to basically take care of a threat that was incoming. The reality is we couldn't do it. We don't have the human capital avaliable.

Nasa also has these tractors, these huge tractors that they use to move the spaceships out onto the launch pads. These tractors are dilapidated and breaking down. They were built in the 1950s, and they can't replace the parts. They don't have the engineering skills necessary to do that. So instead of trying to replace them with newer, perhaps better technology, the absence of better technology means that they have to just make do with what they've got. And they're breaking down at a rate that exceeds the capacity to repair them, so that the failure rate is so high now that they're almost constantly under maintenance. And this, this just tells you that there are these skills, there are these talents. There are these these brilliant sort of ways of doing things which we had in the past, which allowed us to do these mega structures and these mega machines and things which we just don't have right now. And it's starting to hit us, it is really starting to make itself felt in quite a big way, especially in regards to space travel.