---
layout:     post
title:      The Authoritarian Personality
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - new-world-order
---

When will un-pc dissent be considered a mental disorder? Would Albert Einstein be considered special needs today?

With regard to Albert Einstein, I think he would almost certainly be considered special needs today. There's very good evidence that he was a high functioning autistic. He even had selective mutism of the kind which this greta tumburg has, this environmental campaigner, 16 year old from Sweden.

Will un-pc dissent be considered a mental disorder? 

Well, there's an extent to which it already is. You have the right wing or the authoritarian personality back in 1950.They basically argued that being conservative was a mental disorder. There's a degree to which you're going to have problems adopting children if you're seen as too right wing. You're going to have all kinds of other problems. And so there is a degree to which, I think it probably tacitly is conceived of as a mental disorder by the powers that be.

Yes, it's pathologized. Most certainly conservative thinking is. I mentioned this essay, conservatism is motivated social cognition. The whole essay is devoted to just explaining why people on the right are screwed up in various ways. And one of the most conceited things this essay does is it argues that all of the nasty leftists, the ones the leftists don't like, like Paul Pot, Stalin Mao, you'd be murdering, sort of communists, are conservatives, and the only reason they did what they did is because they're rightwing, secretly. No true scotsman, right? No true marxist, no true leftist would ever murder 30 million of his own people, or 60 million people, or a third of his own population in the case of pol pot. You know, no one would know. They'd never do that. So the essay is almost archetypic example of this kind of ...

This new term i've come across recently, clown world. It tells you the kind of clown world that we're living in. The the those who are adaptive under normal conditions of darwinian selection, those are the only people who are not mental are now pathologized as being mental. Those who are rightwing, those who are conservative, those two are breeding. Those who want to pass on their genes, those that want their extended phenotype in the form of their group to survive. The only people that are genetically normal and that wouldn't have died out as children on the conditions of darwinian selection are pathologized.