---
layout:     post
title:      High mutation load causes group selected orientation theory
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - group-selection
---

The middle class and the lower classes in general are more ethnocentric than the other classes. I was thinking that the reason may be that, because of the higher mortality rate of the lower classes, the lower chances of reproductive success, the lower classes change from an individual reproductive strategy over to a kin, group selected strategy. They do this by becoming more ethnic centric and more aggressive to outsiders, and more prone to join the military and sacrifice their own reproductive success for the betterment of the group, society reproductive success, and basically become the group societies can follow. Kind of like the gay uncle theory. 

So the idea is that the lower classes are selected to be the cannon fodder of society and throw themselves at the enemy guns, could there be anything in that?

It's an interesting question. I mean, there is a, there is a sort of an argument that's been made that there may be a conditiondependent component to having sort of high group selected altruism. So the argument is that instead of high group selected orientation being associated with low mutation load or low condition, that's our high condition, it might be associated with low condition and high mutation load, maybe in a curvilinear fashion, right? So you get high levels of both ants.

Because one of the possible advantages of being someone with a very low um condition, who is very group oriented, is that there's no prospects, really, of you being able to make a direct genetic contribution to your group. If you have high mutation load, for example, you're likely to be rejected for mating purposes.

But if you make a high if you make an altruistic contribution to your group, via being heroic in a time of war, for example, you can boost your fitness by proxy, by inclusive fitness. Essentially. There's another there's a theory called ultra altruistic suicide theory as well, which has been put forward, which is very similar. This is based on the idea that people with high mutation load might actually tend to commit suicide for altruistic reasons. So they might do so to free up resources to relatively fitter siblings or more distant relatives in an attempt to raise their inclusive fitness. So this idea has certainly been floated. You know, there is a condition dependence, and it could be curvilinears, it could be at the extremes, essentially, assuming there are no, you know, spiteful mutations or what have you. Maybe certain kinds of mutation would predispose towards this, rather than other kinds that might make you actively act in a way that is damaging to the interests of your group.