---
layout:     post
title:      Ergot religious experience + Monotheism
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - religion
---

Potential role of entheogenic experience and what earth that means? Um, in the rise of monotheism, specifically, ergot in the levant associated with drugs

Entheogen is a type of psychoactive compound. Okay. So basically it's, it's something that specifically uses a sort of spiritual type experience. So a good example of this would be something like dnt. What he's asking you is, do you think, and this is really a question for you, because you know, this is spirituality and religion, do you think that these entheogenic substances, these psychoactive substances that, you know, that are associated with sort of spirituality, what role do you think they've played in the cultural evolution of these populations historically? 

There are various huntergatherer tribes that use drugs to have religious experiences. Tthe famous one, ioaspra. I see no reason why it would promote monotheism. It from, well, you could argue it promotes a kind of neoplatonism, a kind of sense in which everything makes sense and in which you're at one with the world, or whatever. People that have had this taken this, talk about that. And it would perhaps promote religious experience, but I see no reason why it would promote monotheism specifically. So, um, I don't know that it's played a role in that.

I mean that there have been all kinds of crazes that have been put down to ergot and and these kind of funguses and whatever. There was the ranching of the dancing phase. There was a tarantula, tarantula by the tarantula. Uh, in medieval Europe, it was believed people were bitten by the tarantula, but it wasn't. It was because they were drugged, and they'd go around dancing in religious further and and this kind of thing. The various witch phases have been put down to the rise to ergot in the corn.

I don't think it's relevant, perhaps maybe relevant to localized periods of religious fervor, but I don't think it's necessarily relevant to monotheism. And I can't see any way in which it's relevant to monotheism. Um, I think it's, I think monotheism is a separate issue. It's, it's the rise of the citystate. And and there becomes a, there comes a benefit to everyone believing the same thing. And monotheism, remember, it starts with monolatery. So it's not some independent thing. It starts with people believing in the existence of many gods, but only worshipping one as a feedback though. And by worshiping one, it involves other things, as Alan Benoir's pointed out in his very interesting book on being a pagan, other things go with that, one model of history, one understanding of truth, one everything. 

Think of this from a group selection point of view. This is, this is Aj Figueretto's theory of monotheism is about oneness, that that unitariness translates into a kind of cohesive, trans per personal identity, which functions as a locus of binding, which binds the individuals within the group together under a common purpose. And therefore a common fitness maximization function. 

That's what I said. But, but, except for the maximization function. So, that, yes, in terms of group selection, then this means that you're more bonded, you're more together, and, you're more prepared to make sacrifices for each other. Um, and and therefore, you are more as a group selected. And therefore, you're doing better. And so there's a pressure at the group selected level. Um, and the individual various levels.