---
layout:     post
title:      Emile Durkheim and Max Weber
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - religion
---

Thoughts on emile durkheim and Max Weber?

So, emile durkheim apropos the nature of religion, and religion being based around charisma the tribal sort of ritual inducing a sense of the presence of the eternal. I think what he was getting at was basically, I mean, we know this, the religious experience tends to be induced either when you are very, very calm or when you are very, very excited. And it's dangerous to be too calm or too excited for too long. And the consequence of this is that the brain reacts by overwhelming you with with quite the opposite with, you are aroused strongly if you're very calm, or you are made very calm if you are, in that sense, aroused. 

If this correlates, if this is happening at the same time as the presence of religious symbols, then you tend to associate one with the other. I remember that we are evolved to detect agency. We will tend to assume, particularly under stress, there's an agent involved. We are evolved to detect overdetect causation as well. If you give people loads of random dots, then they will assume there's a direction to them. And so this is what seems to induce religious experiences. And, I think that is what durkheim was getting at, he did his research on the aborigines and kangaroo worshippers and things like that. I think, on that level, what he was saying was quite a good point. He may have made other things I don't agree with, but I agree with him on that. 

He also looked at ritual and the way in which ritual is used to transition from one phase of life to the other. And again, I would concur

As for max Weber, I think his protestant work, ethic. Protestants because they believe in, at the most extreme, they believe in calvinism. And so they believe that you are, it is decided for before all time, whether you are in the elect or not. And consequently, to show yourself that you are in the elect, you work very hard, because God will surely bless his elect. 

And also it relates to what we're talking about Jd Unwin and the idea of repressing emotion, repressing impulses, this refreshing sex, basically. And I'm being more successful accordingly. And this is what calvinist theology does. It's highly puritanical. And so this would help to explain the, in part, the success of calvinistic societies, and, more broadly, protestant societies.

Also looked at the issue of charisma and the nature of the charismatic. And he argued that the charismatic was a kind of wounded healer who had been through trauma and was for that reason better able to heal trauma in populations, and better to make a cold world feel warm. From the psychological data we have, that is true. The kind of people who rise right to the top, these charismatic figures, they tend to be high in mental instability. They feel negative feelings strongly. Whether they've been traumatized is a slightly separate issue, but they but they feel negative feelings strongly. And this kind of motivates them, and and and so on. So it permits, and it kind of permits them to to get inside people's minds, in a way.

So I would agree. I'm a fan of both max Faber and Emil durkheim with regard to those specific research areas.