---
layout:     post
title:      NPC meme
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - politics
---

Do you know of the Npc Meme?

One of the funniest things to have ever hit the internet. Npc is a nonplayer character. So basically, in video games, what you have is you have playable characters, and you have a load of characters you can interact with who are nonplayer characters. And they're sort of typified by scripted responses. So you might walk up to them and ask them a question and say, final fantasy or something, and they'll give you a scripted response. You ask another question, we'll give you a different scripted response. And a third question, a third scripted response. Fourth question will give you the first scripted response, right? So that's the idea of a nonplayer character, they're just an algorithm with a set, like a decision tree with a limited number of nodes, and you can engage them and produce a particular set of stylized responses.

But as it pertains to social issues. This is a, this is kind of a joke that got out of hand and really, really upset the left. It was effing hilarious, because what happened was people pointed out that on twitter, a lot of these blue checks and these other sort of bomb ponson types, um, who get all the sort of system kudos and everything, they often just have these stylized responses to things like diversity is good. And they don't justify anything, and they don't engage. And if, you, if you try to engage with them, they just get angry, and it's like they've malfunctioned, and it's like sparks are coming out of their head. So people started pointing out that.

They got this gray like wojack, where they drew like Frowny lines on him and put like a speaker where his mouth was, and they just retweet this at people, with like, stylized respect.

Interesting thing that tattoos are actually correlated with Iq in both men and women, but much, much more strongly in women than men. Well, I wouldn't be surprised, no, because with men, with men, there's certain cultural reasons to get them, being in the army and things like that. Also, ritual, ritualistic scarification is is actually a male norm. You find it in warrior cultures. You find it historically. It's always been something males do.

But for women it is highly, highly, highly irregular. As a matter of fact, the premium for women has always been on fair skin, completely unadulterated skin. You know, no no scarring. You've got certain tribes, where they're in sudan, for example, where they do, they do scar women in Africa, parts of Africa. 

This question concerning the internal monologue, there was a study conducted about this which, well, it didn't really, it didn't really look at internal monologues. What it did is it looked at the degree to which people were capable of recording thoughts that they had as and when they occurred to them. And they found that there were individual differences in people's willingness to record thoughts on a whim. Some people were more willing to do it in other words. So if you looked at the thought diaries that people caught or people recorded there were individual differences. And and the study was sort of taken out of context to imply that this implied that a large percentage of the population, I think it was as much as 30 or 20 percent, did not have any kind of inner life, right, or in a monologue. And as a result, there was no, there was no little sort of homunculus in there doing the internal monologue thing, and that a lot of people might just be sort of blank.

And this got merged, in a weird way, with the Npc meme to try those people on the internet, you know, internet science theory about the origin of Npcs. Maybe these Npcs just repeat stuff that they hear and have no like critical and they are really just like nonplayer characters that group population.

It's actually a genuinely interesting question, it is of every philosophical sort of zombies out there, and how to measure them. And I suspect there are ways of measuring them. I don't think getting people to keep sort of boring thought diaries is a good way of measuring them. What would be interesting would be to look the Neuro activity corollaries of inner monologues and see if you can measure, measure the presence or absence of an inner monologue directly. 

Hans Eysenck, I think, had this theory to being the genius that he was, a quasi genius that he was. He had this theory about introversion and extroversion, which was quite unique. And it was based on the idea that introverts, introverts, have a rich inner life, and it's why they don't seek external arousal. They don't need to be interact with other people for social arousal. They can just arouse themselves. They can stimulate themselves. They can amuse themselves. They they can entertain themselves. They can erect something entertaining in their own minds. They don't actually need to, they don't need other people around to sort of provide them with entertainment. And we all know people like this, people who are circus masters, who want loads of people around them sort of chatting to them about rubbish to keep them happy. And they seek out other people. And groups of people those are Eysenckian extroverts. Whereas the introverts are ones who like just sitting in their room working on stuff, or listening to music or what have you. Were just doing things. They just sitting in their room pleasuring themselves. 

What I'm wondering is, no absolutely. But what I'm wondering is could it be that a lot of the, a lot of these people who like taking to social media and sort of parroting globalist nostrums, for, you know, for for the dopamine points, or whatever it is they get. Could these people be highly, could these people be highly dopaminergic? Could they be highly extroverted in the sort of old Eysenck sense of the term? There is there some validity to the Eysenck model? Might this relate to the presence of a sort of inner monologue versus an outer monologue? I guess, the need to engage with people, to fill your head with stuff and to parrot it back, the sort of need for approval, that sort of thing. 

It's an interesting idea. And there's a subsection of the spiteful mutant, then is is basically a person that has no, no inner voice. There could be, I mean, i've always thought of the Eysenckian introversion, extroversion continuums being where your actual Npc dimension is.