---
layout:     post
title:      Low IQ causes errors due to lack of attention
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - civilizational-declension
---

Says, how do you distinguish errors that happen due to lack of attention from errors that happen by lowering Iq, like Concord case in your book? 

I don't think there's a need to distinguish them. I think the people who have lower Iq will have a lack of attention?

Do low Iq people make more errors? He just says, how do you distinguish errors that happened your lack of attention, from errors that happened due to lowering iq, like the concord case in your book?

But I don't think there's a distinction, because presumably the the concord case in our book potentially happened due to a lack of attention. But I suppose it's certainly not true to say that all errors are caused by low intelligence, high iq people make errors as well. That's true. But it's certainly the case that errors are more common when you have low intelligence people around. The base rate of error will increase in everything. Essentially will be and also accidents.

This is what Linda Godfriedson, yeah, this is what Linda Alfordson calls cognitive ergonomics. So, so I don't think you can distinguish the two anyway. That's my point. I think lack of attention is a manifestation, potentially, of low iq. And you could argue that what happened with Concord was a lack of attention. An attentive person would have thought, that bit of metal is the wrong shape. A person that was stupid would have not really thought about it.