---
layout:     post
title:      Death occurs five years after reaction time slowdown
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - science
---

You spoke before about a death factor where people die within five years of a certain change in g how does that work? 

Well, what this is work conducted by Ian deary over at the center for cognitive epidemiology at the University of Edinburgh. What he found was that, basically, the uh was that basically, if you track an individual's react simple visual reaction time throughout their life course, and they've done this using the thing called the, I think it's the lothian cohort, they have longitudinal data going back many, many decades where they've taken the same individuals and they've measured them and remeasured them, and we can tell what's going on over time, that crystallized intelligence is declining, and the fluid intelligence starts to decline, and so on and so forth.

What he found was that there's a, there's a sort of inflection point in reaction times, such that reaction times go from declining to a certain degree, because they do. After you've reached around 35, reaction times start to decline along with fluid intelligence in general, where reaction times are generally considered part of a fluid intelligence, sort of supercluster. But it turns out the reaction times, they go from sort of declining gradually to declining very precipitously. So they sort of go like that and then drop. And that inflection point that that bend or or crook essentially in the, uh, in the elbow of a joint. Uh, that point at which they go from declining slowly to declining rapidly, predicts death to within five years. That seems to be one of the things that fails very shortly before you die.

It's like an early indicator of viterbi uses system integrity. So they have this concept of nervous system integrity. And nervous system integrity relates to the broader phenomenon of physiological integrity through genes, which tie things together, which is why you get correlations between iq and reaction times and cardiovascular health and dementia risk and schizophrenia risk, and all these things seem to be, seem to be genetically correlated, more or less. So at least in the case of schizophrenia, it's severity of progression of symptoms rather than actual underlying risk. It's more about how quickly you develop the symptoms. It's work done by Stuart Ritchie. But the system integrity factor, one of the things that indicates that your system integrity is going to help is, apparently, a massive drop in your reaction time speed, an increase in latency.