---
layout:     post
title:      Largest sized group Group Selection can act on
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - group-selection
---

Is there an upper limit on the size of stable group selection? E.g. a point when the population becomes too big that genetic deviation becomes inevitable? Or can it go as big as long as homogeneity is somehow maintained?

So basically the answer to that is, I don't know. Um, I think theoretically, there ought to be an upper limit. There ought to be a point at which it's no longer possible to coordinate the elements within the group in such a way that can give rise to coherence and purpose. With larger group sizes, presumably you need stronger and stronger and stronger cultural controls on the group to regulate behavior in epigenetic, epigenetic regulation on behavior in developmental time. So you need these sort of stronger developmental constraints through culture on the way in which these individuals develop. Because, presumably the bigger the group, the more unwieldy it is. 

And, and this leads to a sort of problem, whereby in theory you might get a dunbar's number. So humans in a sort of pristine state of nature, you know, humans living in the environment of evolutionary adaptiveness, could really number no more than, say, 150 to 200, according to Robin dunbar, hence his number. And he noted this in the case of uh, of the sort of, uh, low subsistence paradigm, the hunter gatherer, for the basically horticulturalist type uh, human societies, where the numbers rarely got got about 200.

But the issue is, we obviously have much bigger groups. Apparently, there's still a tendency for humans, even in western, weird, you know, white, educated, industrialized, rich and democratic contexts, within their immediate social networks, to have no more than about 150 to 200 close associates. There have been some network analyses conducted using facebook data that suggests that dunbar's number is still in action in these local scale networks.

If group selection is ultimately what was driving the helps to get to an industrial revolution. It's a highly grouped, selected organization that will get to the industrial revolution, or will get to a little bit prior to industrial revolution, to a high level of luxury or whatever, to cities and so on. And it seems that almost inevitably, when when they do that, in every civilization we know of, they develop contraception. And and once they do that, then that's the turning point, and group selection breaks down.

So in theory, could you have, so this is the question, could you have a group that is under such strong group selection that it just, let's say you have to some like, some kind of, you know, Superman arose or something, a mutant or something, a rose, that was able to just do this incredible amount of group selection and ended up just taking over the entire planet, and then started to spread into space. What, what would be the limits to that group's ability to maintain its group identity as a function of size?

What is the dunbar's number, beyond dunbar's number? So in other words, when you attain a certain level of iq, and you retain a certain level of ability to actually compete in intergroup competition, and a certain degree of success as well, how big can your group then get? What is the what's the next level, when you, when you, you know, when you, when you move between levels, and you go from dumbass number what, what is above that is, it is the maximum sustainable group, 10 million, 100 million. How, what is that level? I don't know. And it could be simulated. It's actually a question. Yeah, we could, could be simulated? Well, it should be simulated.