---
layout:     post
title:      Current state of Israel
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - mutational-sink
 - social-epistasis
---

Is the large divergence in birth rate between haredi and secular Jews leading to aggressive decline in G in Israel. Any other disgenic effects?

Well, they're about third of the population now in Israel. Yeah, coming very much from an ascendant group. And they don't do national service. So they won't do national service. It's a big thing in Israel. You have to, everyone has to do two years national service, and they're allowed not to do it because they're too religious to do it. So, um, I would assume they'd be less intelligent than, they'd have lower um intelligence than the than the um the secular Israelis um. As for other dysgenic effects? Certainly there's a leftist, **increasing leftist throw open the floodgates, throw over the doors to immigration**. Stop us being an ethnic state movement in Israel, that's for sure. So, so you could that may be a consequence of justice. 

I know they are a country very secretive about their Iq data. I know that it's very difficult to get a hold of, uh, Iq data from they have it for their conscripts, but they don't let it out of their site. They keep it under lock and key. Or even if you're an israeli academic, even if you're in Israel I know a couple of israeli academics, and they throw their hands up and they say, we've been trying to get hold of some of the stuff for a long time, and the israeli government just will not let us have it. So apparently no one can get a hold of it except the israeli military. So maybe, maybe, I don't know someone who works with the israeli military, or who's in the israeli military, who, you know, is associated with their sort of personnel selection division or something, maybe they can get, maybe they'll get access to it. But it's, it's, you know, it's a very tough if. Okay, so if you've got a death wish and you're working in the israeli military, please get in touch with us, if you don't mind mossad abducting you and killing you,