---
layout:     post
title:      Cause of Autism
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - autism
---

Us dollars. Thank you, Madam. I was under the impression that autism is as a result of reaction to chemicals and childhood vaccinations. I am, for your information, a descendant of one of the most powerful mutants of all time, Oliver Cromwell.

You're only going to carry a very small amount of evil dna, so you'll be all right on that front. But, well, there may be some relationship, I'm not aware that it's been comprehensively proven, between childhood, between childhood vaccinations and autism. The causes of autism also to do with parental paternal age and things like this.

Yes, this is the thing I like to say that the sort of this antivaxxer take on autism, but it's related to vaccines, is a, it's a gigantic for people who don't want to face up to the fact that the real cause of autism is, in fact, an increase in the frequency of mainly paternally transmitted de Novo mutations, which, which are accumulating as a part of a legacy load in the face of the massively relaxed purifying selection, as evidenced by the collapse in infants, child and maternal mortality, which is the primary mechanism through which purifying selection operates. When you go from a situation where you're where your odds of being able to fully participate in reproduction are less than 30 percent to one way, or odds of a 99, then that increases the likelihood that people carrying mutations that would previously exclude them from reproduction going to be able to get to participate in reproduction, simply because there's no costs anymore to the accumulation of those mutations in terms of direct costs to the individual organism. And as a consequence of that, you end up with this rather unfortunate situation in which conditions like Autisticlike personality and similar conditions, schizophrenia.

There's a thing called the Recency Hypothesis, which is very controversial. Chap looked into the medical literature prior to the 18th century. Could not find any descriptions in the medical literature. And these guys kept very good notes of things, and you can see lots of diseases which were present in people were not called by their modern names, but were clearly there. The syndrome was clearly described. Any diagnostician looking at the notes say, this person's medieval peasant or whatever, had this condition, of that condition. There's no, nothing like schizophrenia in the literature, medical literature, prior to the 18th century. It seems to have been a disease which arose during the enlightenment and has increased.

You don't think someone like Joan of Arc had schizophrenia?

No, probably not. She she might have had other psychotic conditions, but not schizophrenias. It's a brainiac is characterized by a pronounced social dysfunction as a function of being so badly handicapped by the mixing of sensors, essentially, and the the mixed wiring of the brain that, it prevents you from being able to function at all. So there's kind of very profound schizophrenia with this. The strange periods where people with schizophrenia, will go into these weird, almost Coma like states to cope with things, and where they have these rapid sort of shifts in behavior, in these outbursts mania and hallucinations and all this sort of thing that seems to be a disease which was first described in the 18th century. This is the recent sea hypothesis.

What about autism?

I don't know about autism, but if you look at secular trend data, even even if you control for diagnostic switching, ie, increasing numbers of people with just very low iq being being diagnosed and misdiagnosed as autists, even if you control for that, the secular trend is still upwards over time. So presumably that's also a recent disease, in the sense somebody like Isaac Newton, or whatever, had, yes, they might have had it, but maybe we're talking about a specific kind of autism which is associated with very severe social dysfunction, which might not have been characteristic of someone like Isaac Newton, for whom it was sort of an asset in terms of being able to really focus on math.