---
layout:     post
title:      High IQ tilts + Chess
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - specialized-abilities
 - flynn-effect
---

Doesn't iq predict success across subjects?

Okay, well, yes it does. But there's also something called spearman's law of diminishing returns, which is the tendency for the positive manifold of G to weaken just a little bit, by about a percentage point or two for every standard deviation above the average in Iq. Which means you have more sort of mojo? Bioenergetic effort to allocate into the cultivation of specialized abilities. So it's not uncommon for people with higher iq to develop tilts or patterns of differentiation. This indeed, is, is quite normal.

As for chess, chess isn't very g loaded. We actually have quite a lot of data on this. The best chess player, Bobby fischer, was not very smart, by his own admission. He was a fairly boring, sort of normal person. But as far as chess was concerned, he was outstanding, obviously in the league of his own so chess seems to be one of these games, a bit like go, which draws on certain facets of working memory, uh, with respect to which one can differentiate. Um, it also seems that chess playing ability has undergone something of the flynn effect, in that the youngest chess players ranked, sort of, in these tournament ranks, are getting younger and younger and younger. So chess playing ability seems to be one of these specialized abilities that's growing along with the flynn effect. Maybe because right hippocampal volume is increasing over time, or something like that. It's a game of memory and strategy, essentially, it's modestly gloaded, but not nearly as much as people think.

I mean, sorry, you just get these people that are obsessed with chess and go on and on about it, and, and then you get people like me who just, I find it, I have, I can play chess, and says, I know the rules, but I find it utterly tedious. Mindnumbingly tedious. Why would anybody invent such a stupid game?

It's actually a game I'm okay at. It's not a game I enjoy. Um, and I suspect that i'd be better at it had I had, I actually had a passion for it. I think experience producing drive, are what's needed to really develop that sort of specialized