---
layout:     post
title:      Transsexuals.md
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - mutations
---

Is transsexuality the consequence of overpopulation in some way? And should we herald transsexuals as signs of the coming of transhumanism?

Since the industrial revolution, we've had 40% child mortality go down to 1% child mortality. Child mortality was select was selecting out, basically every generation, mutant genes, which cause people to essentially have poor immune systems and various other things wrong with them. Mutant genes of the body tend to be comorbid with mutant genes of the mind. The mind is 84 whatever of the genome. This, of course, means it's a large target for mutations. Mutations of the mind tends to become more of mutation to the body. And so what you would predict, as we have less and less and less um purifying selection, in the postindustrial revolution, is more and more mutations of the mind, which would make people think um in a maladaptive way, in a way that was bizarre, in a way that was strange, in a way that wasn't in their genetic interests. And so I would suggest, one, to the extent that there's something genetic, which may be to a very small degree, about the rise in transsexuality, I would suggest it would be in line with that, it would be something to do with to do the build up of these, more and more of these mutant genes of the mind.

And consistent with that, there is very good evidence that transsexuals tend to be disproportionately lefthanded, very like about 50, I think 50 percent of transsexual males are lefthanded. And lefthanded, this is normally a side of something having gone wrong in development of the brain, being asymmetrical, for example, so that it overuses the right side of the brain. And also, there's correlations between transsexuality and various, numerous disorders of depression, autism and and minor physical abnormalities and all kinds of things which would indicate that perhaps could be a genetic dimension to this. So that's one possibility.

A second, and it, again, from the social epistasis theory, a normal society, under normal conditions of selection, will tend to create institutions which them such as religiousness which promote... those who have these spiteful mutations will alter in a suboptimal direction, even the expression of the genes of those who come into contact with them, because those people are evolved to be with normal people, to advocate normal things and whatever. And these people don't. And so in doing that, they help to undermine these longevolved institutions in society, such as religiousness, or how you raise children or whatever. Because suddenly these people are being an environmental level, dealt with suboptimally. That I would see as a second dimension to it. I in the past, even when I was a boy, 25 30 years ago, you may get people that would go through little phases of thinking they were gay, or thinking that they wanted to be a woman, or thinking that, you know, they were a girl and wanted to be a boy. You're thinking these things, but that, but it was so socially unacceptable that you, in a sense of what Kevin Mcdonald calls effortful control, you forced yourself to not do so. And it would pass. That was a lot of these things like this. It would pass. We'd get plenty of people that went to public school or whatever, who I was at university with, who went through a little phase of of being a bit gay, prison gay, really, but it, but it would pass. And they would never come out of the closet as gay or anything like that, and make it as part part of their identity. But increasingly, these controls have been taken away. And so it means that if you go through a little phase of being a bit strange and questioning yourself. And you combine that with certain sort of mental problems, which, which will increase as a consequence of both spiteful genes and social epistasis. Then that could help to help to contribute to this relatively recent, it is recent. It's too recent to be just genes. Rising transsexuality and people being into  nonbinary and all this kind of thing.

The third thing is the relationship between transsexuality and basically autism. So if you look, if you look at the the data on the correlates of, for example, eating disorders such as Anorexia Nervosa, they are very similar to the correlates of females who are you know, transsexual or whatever they have. They have a high 2d 4d ratio in the hands. They're basically masculine. They're, they're autistic as well. They call it being autistic. Being a transsexual correlates with being autistic and so one of the things that's noticeable among a lot of these men that become women is that they are then lesbians. And when they round that's not the case. And so what this seems to implies something to do with autism. We're getting more autism levels are rising due to a combination of spiteful genes and older parents and things like this. And autism is associated with with identity disorders, not being able to know who you are, and having all kinds of problems like that. And this itself seems to be and low self and problems with selfesteem, and problems with dealing with people, and problems with creating a stable sense of self. And this, in itself would seem to be associated with transsexuality. And indeed, it's the same demographic that 20 or 30 years ago, would have been would have had anorexia and eating disorders. It's those people now who are in girls schools, who are saying, oh, I'm nonbinary. You have to change the school uniform. 

So that's kind of what I think is going on. I don't, I don't think it's anything to do with transhumanism. I think it's to do with the breakdown of of these normal institutions of society, which would stop this happening, combined with these spiteful genes.