---
layout:     post
title:      Clever sillies are doing the emperors new clothes
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - new-world-order
---

To what degree does intuition factor into the measurement of general intelligence? Can the reason be intelligent, but rely entirely on intuition? Can the reason be intelligent rely entirely on intuition? Is the question? 

If intuition can be understood to be a kind of specialized ability at the foot of the intelligence pyramid, to a certain extent, then you would expect the people that were very clever to have quite bad intuitions towards certain things, that have bad intuitions towards people and things like this. And who who trust, do not trust, they might be naive. So they definitely shouldn't rely on their intuition. And the whole clever sillies model was then arguing that they, they kind of almost can't use intuition. They insist on thinking everything through, and and and and so they, and then they come to bad conclusions, like almost that they're low in intuition. I don't know, what do you think?

Well, I i kind of argued the opposite. I i argued that they have very high social intelligence. And a lot of what they're doing is signaling. So they are intelligent enough to realize what needs to be done in order in order to navigate elite social strata, essentially. And if that means doing a whole emperor's new clothes thing, pretending the emperor has clothes when he does not, as a way of keeping out of trouble, and, elevating your social status by sort of raising mistakes in terms of costly signaling, then actually, that's a very smart thing to do. And you could argue that insofar as that's a manifestation of social intelligence, Ie, general intelligence, applied to solving socially abstract problems, then yes.

But perhaps we might want to make a distinction between cognitive and noncognitive forms of social intelligence. So there's that kind of social intelligence, and there's maybe another kind that's closer to what people mean when we talk about social intelligence, which is really social conation, or, you know, social, a form of social cognition that's not intelligence, basically. Maybe that relates more to sort of intuitive a fluidic, associational, flexible, um, uh, grounded, sort of, uh, drawing on on, you know, there's actually very good paper on this intelligence published a couple of years ago, where they, they did make this distinction, and they showed those kind of, these different styles associated with these different forms of social intelligence.