---
layout:     post
title:      Moral facts trump scientific facts
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - politics
---

I've found the quote from Andrew Sadie's book. She says that those in essence, she says that those who want to do research on race needs to have some self-examination, and they should feel regret and remorse. She says they have an absence of introspection. And she says, quote, nothing is more seductive than a nice string of data, a single bell curve or a seemingly peer-reviewed scientific study. After all, it can't be racist if it is a fact.

That's that's the quote. So what she's basically saying is that even if the evidence indicates that something is the case, if it's racist, then you should have faith that it's not true, that it's only been seemingly peer reviewed the period, must have been corrupted by evil people who seduce you. They manipulate you with the empirical evidence. And that you should be able to move above that and have faith that if it's racist, that it's not true. That's what she's arguing.

Well, it's interesting. Somebody in the chat actually mentioned, uh, something. What's her name? OAC. She basically made some statement recently to the effect that moral facts trump actual facts. And there is something that leftist moral philosophers like to do. They like to assert there are these things called moral facts, which exist in some platonic sense. They're real in some sense, and they're prior to actual revealed truths, as in things you find in the course of scientific research.

So if you believe that it is a moral fact that everyone is absolutely equal, and then that is part that comes prior to any amount of evidence you can bring to bear on the question of whether that is an actual defensible state empirically. It means it doesn't matter what you find in terms of looking around in nature. It doesn't make a difference. The fact is that the moral fact is prior to that, and is inviolet, essentially. 

And it's almost, it's almost like the position that the ancient Greeks took. I forget who it was. It might have been Plato or someone who said that, or might even have been played who said that. If you torture nature, all you will hear are her screams. This idea of experimentation, empiricism these are bad things. They're not to be encouraged. We can just reflect on things in the world, and a priori know everything, right through just pure reason, pure a priori reason. And that that, I think, is definitely part of how how the left uh defend their position on this, is they know, a priori that this is wrong, so therefore, it doesn't matter what you've found. All you've done is you've just made nature scream by torturing her with your science and your potions. Doesn't alter the moral facts.

They're what Carl popper would call uncautious essentialists. And of course, if you question the moral facts, then you are Abso facto immoral. So it's approaching the world in a completely different way. They don't. It's absurd for Angela, say, to write a book about science. She's not in she's literally not interested in science. It's antithetical to science, the empirical evidence. Unless that empirical evidence backs up something she likes is of just no relevance to her. And I think that she's extremely dangerous, very, very dangerous individual.