---
layout:     post
title:      Birth order effects are confounded by fertility
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - iq
 - science
---

Firstborn children generally have higher Iqs. Would this remain true even if the mother had a prior failed or aborted pregnancy? Well, they'd have presumably higher iq than than the next one along, wouldn't they? Why would that make a difference? I don't know. Would that make a difference?

Well, birth order effects are, I mean, are they real? Are they really real? Well, I don't know. I think the birth order effects are confounded with fertility. I think the only reason you'd have a high birth ordinal is you came from a big family. And big families are produced by lower Iq people. So of course, the higher your birth order will be lower your iq, because it's confounded with fertility. Nobody ever controls of that in these studies. So when people talk about birth orders, I want to know what that looks like when you actually control the family size. I've never seen that done in any of these studies. And as far as I'm concerned, the entire effect can be driven by differences in family size. It can be completely between family rather than within family effect disguised as a within family effect.

Oh, they don't look at it within families.

Well, they they rarely do. I mean, for example, I assume that it was within families, it was like longitudinal. Well, I saw, I've seen studies, looking at birth order effects, which don't control for family size. Like, I saw a big one using project talent, which did not control for family size, and it just looked at birth ordinal and sort of threw that in there, essentially that as a predictor of iq. And yes, it showed a birth order effect, but because it didn't control the family size, it might have been picking up a between family effect. What would be interesting would be something we don't have, which is a metaanalysis where you could actually use whether they control for this or not as a moderator. And my prediction is that, insofar as there is an effect, it's going to be very, very tiny, and it'll be much, much smaller than than the aggregate effect.

It would make sense though, because there'll be more, like, you say, mutants, more mutation with the age of the parent, right?

This is the thing. Another theory I had to explain it is there's not much of a paternal age effect on Iq, insofar as there's a consistent between family effect of, you know, when you control the birth order, there's not so much of a consistent between family effect of paternal age on Iq. Unlike, for say, physical attractiveness. So there's actually a relatively big effect, or fertility, where there's a fairly modest effect, or adhd prevalence, where there's a very big effect, or autism, what is a big effect, etc. For iq, there's virtually nothing. So one possibility is that within families, there might be private mutations which have unique effects on those families, a lineage specific so this is what Stephen Pinker calls private or family specific mutations. And maybe, maybe there's a paternal age effect that's purely within family, and that is a function of the accumulation of private or family specific mutations, which, if you transplanted those mutations to other individuals and other families, would not have the same effect, because they just have a unique epistatic effect on whatever unique gene configurations comprise the, you know, the structure of traits within a particular family, and are not shared between families. So okay, that's could explain it if it's still there after controlling for fertility.