---
layout:     post
title:      Can we stop our civilizational decline
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - civilizational-declension
---

A bit later. Are we powered to stop the iq drop and problems that will come with it? How does one prepare for a possible future dark age?

Yes, I would say we can slow it down. We I don't think it, I can't see. I have thought about this most violently, and we have difficulty in thinking of a way in which it could be stopped. It seems to be an inevitable process in all civilizations. I don't see why ours would be different. It's just that we've managed to, we've managed to get past the industrial revolution by virtue of being so religious, compared to previous populations, and inheriting a specific taboo on contraception, meaning that we had to get we had to get further before before we became sufficiently irreligious to start using contraception. So we got past the industrial revolution in a way that we wouldn't otherwise have done.

You can think of it like orbits. Okay? If I throw a rock in the air, it goes up near describes a parabola in terms of his trajectory, and crashes straight down. Dysgenics is kind of like gravity. Everybody succumbs to it at the end of the day. It's just a byproduct of civilization. It's just, in previous dysgenic cycles, we've done the equivalent to fire off a cannon. The ball has traveled a great distance, but has never, has never reached orbital velocities and never been able to sort of break free. At the moment, we're in orbit. Okay, we got to orbit. We weren't able to break free, but we've been able to describe a couple of orbits. And the orbit is decaying. We're going to come down again, and we're going to, we're going to crash into the planet's surface. The idea would be maybe in a thousand years, or whatever it takes, to get back into the sort of eugenic groove. Maybe next time, if we can take advantage of the errors that have been committed in this civilization cycle, and we can ensure that knowledge of these errors are preserved and transmitted faithfully across generations, unlike the library of Alexandria. Want to avoid that knowledge loss problem if we can allow the next generation, the next sort of couple of generations, to data mind the past, the pearls of wisdom, and maybe maybe do things to their civilization at an earlier stage that leads to a continuation of the positive selection trend for intelligence in a way that is sustainable, perhaps congruent with some kind of artificial group selection. et al. Cartell. Then you might end up with a situation which we can break orbit, and then we can go wherever we want, because then he might be in a position where we could have a biological singularity. There you go, recursively selfimprove ourselves and buffer ourselves against dysgenics, which means we take that out of the equations and existential risk completely. So that would be the possibility we need to break orbit next time, essentially by having a bigger rocket.

We can, we can help that out through knowledge preservation.