---
layout:     post
title:      Genetic cause of the reformation
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - religion
---

Was the reformation a response to higher iq? To me, thought is the thinking man's religion, as it requires one to interpret scripture as well. Catholicism is doing what the priest tells you, returning to thousands with lower iq.

My answer to that would be, probably yes. It's certainly true that you start to see the rise of catholicism very quickly, sorry, of protestantism. Protoprotestantism very quickly. In the wake of the black death, when between a third and half of european people were killed, it is likely that the black death was a selection event. Let's say 30 or 40 of english people were killed. It was eighty percent of the surfs. Eighty percent of the surfs. Being a surf would probably be associated with low iq. So it can be argued to be a a selection event that raised iq. And, you and also probably raised religiousness, because the personality associated with religiousness, conscientiousness, agreeableness, this kind of thing would help you to make plans. And would predict high social status. And would therefore help, would be associated with the being able to make plans to survive the plague and to get out of the towns and to think for the future, and perhaps even have a good immune system.

I don't know. But so certainly what you would expect is that it would select for religiousness and it would select for intelligence. And if it did that, then you'd get a rise in intelligence. This would be manifested in the renaissance, which you see quite quickly in the wake of the plague, 100 years after play. And it would be seen in the reformation, which combines this intelligence with being more religious, essentially, a greater belief in religiosity, a stronger belief in witches and all these kinds of other things that happen in the wake of the plague. So I would think the answer is probably yes.

It was about intelligence. Would predict questioning the previous dispensation, which it did. It would put it to more intellectual attitude, learning foreign languages and things like this, which you find it wanting to get perhaps in some ways, to the essence of things, structure, analytic, whatever, which you find. And you see this with wickliffe and the protoreformation, and then you see it with luther and whatever.

Well, after the black death, it was a huge increase in the skills premium, that was the amount of money that people could ask for per unit labor. Which suggests, yes, there was not just a reduction in the total quantity of laborers, but there was also an increase in their quality, because you started to see all this highlevel artisanal stuff coming out of Europe, which laid the foundations for the renaissance. You know, this is at the time of you started to see your personal prodigy type architectures arising on the continent.