---
layout:     post
title:      How to counter dominance from male rivals?
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
home: true
tags:
 - mutations
 - social-sexual-selection
---

I've been toying with this idea about sense of humor and being a certain way politically, I have a theory that it's a very, very good indicator of one's mutation mode, if one actually has a functioning sense of humor or not. This would be something i've wanted to look at, is whether human production ability is associated with a paternal age effect.

It's sexually selected. There was a study I that was quoted by Daniel nettle that women are sexually attracted to men who are funny. It's displaying your mental abilities, do mental gymnastics, that kind of thing. So it's a little bit like singing to be able to make people laugh. And so it can be attractive to the extent that even if you've got mutational load in the face, that you're a bit ugly, you could, you can talk away your face if you can make people laugh, particularly in men. And it would make sense, of course, that men are, and I don't care what anyone says, men are funnier than women. And, that's why most comedy is produced by men. It's bound to be. Because it's a sexually selected trait. 

Think about what humor does in terms of how it allows you to sort of control a group. Because it's essentially, humorists have followerships. They have people who who are very attracted to their particular style. They follow them around like groupies. Someone like Lee Evans, for example. He goes around and the great sort of theaters and things get booked out. People come and watch and listen to him. And famous american comedians. But the, the interesting thing about them is there's a social aspect to humor, I think, which is very, very, very poorly understood.

And I i it's almost as if the humor is a kind of a **leadership trait, almost, in the sense that it functions to counter dominance**, because you can't get angry with somebody who's making you laugh. No. So if you have that ability to basically, regulate a crowd and control it at a sort of temperamental level like that, then that suggests a very healthy genome, doesn't it? And someone with potentially very good traits for the purposes of social and sexual selection, and the ability to regulate the crowd, as might be what's being selected here. Rather than the humor itself, it might be the the reaction to the humor.

Because does a tree fall in the woods if no one is around to hear it? Is it joke funny if, if there isn't a group of people, doesn't make a noise when it falls out in the woods? Indeed. I think that's the very good point. It returns to the earlier question actually about leadership, the the the charismatic. And often, although there's different kinds of charismatic, and you do get some that are very somber and not particularly humorous, in general, the political charismatic can make people laugh and make people cry. He can manipulate, he can do both. He can manipulate emotions, but there's generally a sense of humor involved in these these, whether they're charismatic preachers or politicians.  It's expressing the kind of mind that would have got to the top of the hierarchy under under preindustrial conditions. And therefore would have been rich, and therefore would have had surviving offspring.

Although that would, that not imply, though, that if conditions of darwinian selection were weak, and we'd get less funny. This, I think, is evident. Yes, I would agree. That's why we have to remake things. A lot of people say that one of the one of the things that is most starkly characteristic of contemporary corporate culture is just how humorous. It is. A lot of people who work in those sort of, that sort of environment report that humor is, is something that is treated with extraordinary suspicion by other people.

And the one thing i've noticed about those that shall not be mentioned by people on a certain wing of the political spectrum, who are, you know, very influential on youtube, have these videos and maybe give off a funny odor, these sort of individuals. One thing i've noticed about them is that it's not just that they are not humorous, it's that they actively want to police humor. 

They recognize humor as a considerable threat. It's a loss of control, laughter. It's almost as if they get humor in the sense that they recognize it for what it is, a mechanism of healthy social bonding and social regulation and leadership encounter dominance. They may see it, but they see it in those terms. But they see it as a threat, so they don't want it. So they want to stamp it out. Especially because because if you are, if you are a deeply neurotic sort of person, then mentally unstable and whatever, you need structure. And, there's a degree to which structure kind of is undermined by humor, and so I you can see how it's a threat. It's a loss of structure.

It's a loss of control and it's potentially a very effective way of undermining, these things that they take ever so seriously have really undermined. It's such an effective, kind of hypnotic way of undermining. If you, if you're, if you're prepared to mock something, once it's mockable, then it's gone, really. I mean, once something's just derided, it no longer hasn't powerful anymore. Can it not sacrifice? No, if you, if that's why it's proclaimed and and it's that, it's that that process of making the sacred profane. And that's why they're so concerned about people having any kind of humorous take.