---
layout:     post
title:      Consanguineous mating advantages
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - exogamy
---

Consonant is marriage rates in the Middle East, and my oasis theory in which this behavior context is advantageous, you have errors that are always productive and need to be guarded by specific tribes.

Yes, there's many payoffs to consequence mating. It's really not right to say that in breeding is just bad, right? It's actually good. And one advantage is is consistent with with your hypothesis. I'm calling it the oasis model. But the there are, if you have a more faster life history, population and you need to, you need to increase the payoff to very small amounts of communitarian efforts. So this would be, you know, effort allocated to the purposes of maintaining the integrity of a group. And you have a group made up of more sort of fast life history individuals who have lower trust than if you increase the genetic similarity among these individuals, you can increase the payoff to even sort of nugatory allocations of communitarian effort. So so it's a way of maxing out the benefits to very, very small effort allocation into maintaining community structure. You make every bit of communitarian effort pay and you do this by having a bigger, inclusive fitness premium, by having increased genetic closeness.

The other thing is resource consolidation over time. So if you have lineages that are highly related to each other, and you have things like bridal dowries and this sort of thing, you have this, you know, system of bride wealth. So you're actually giving resources in exchange for mating. You can consolidate those resources within a single family by just having all the meetings occurring within a single family therefore no resources need to leave that family. Everything is consolidated. So vertical transmission of assets and wealth can be consolidated within family lines through inbreeding, which has been fitness payoffs. 

The other advantage, which is interesting is, and this is something, this is a concept very few people have ever heard of, is inbreeding vigor now most people are familiar with inbreeding depression, which is increasing homozygosity, due to inbreeding, increases the likelihood of diseases, sort of increasing in frequency of the population. But there are certain traits for which you want to inbreed. And these traits are traits which don't really breathe true. Like, for example, mhc is major histocompatibility alleles associated with the immune system, which tend to break up, by design, through normal reproduction and recombination, to the point where the heritability of these immunological phenotypes is actually negative. The offspring tend to tend to be dissimilar to the parents, rather than the other way around. So you end up with dissimilarity by design, because you want to bet hedge against novel parasites.

But let's say you're not having to deal with normal parasites. Let's say you're living in an area where there's a specific kind or set of parasites, and those parasites are constantly trying to outwit your immune system, and you're racing in a coevolutionary arms race with them, then instead of out breeding and breaking up your locally coadapted mhc complex genes, you want to inbreed in order to maintain the fidelity of those mhc complex genes and ensure that your offspring are as much like you as possible. Because they're not having to deal with novel parasites. They're having to deal the same parasites over and over again. And they need to consolidate all their local adaptations in order to keep, you know, maintain this zero sum game, essentially, of coadaptation with the local parasites.

This may go hand in hand with the syndrome of other, what known as behavioral immuno immunological traits, such as high levels of xenophobia, high levels of religiosity, high levels of ethnocentrism, these being an adaptation too.

So as malaria declined in England, let's say, then there would have been less prejudice towards cousin marriage, for that reason.

That's right, and that is, across countries, and I have data on this, the strongest predictor of the frequency, of of the prevalence of cows and marriage is parasite stress. It doesn't really matter how you measure it. You can measure it in terms of disability adjusted life years for infectious diseases, which is the world health organization measure. You can measure it using, murray and schaller's work on historical parasite prevalence and disease burdens, you always get the same result. Levels of cousin marriage strongly track. They strongly covary with respect to parasite stress, suggesting that one of the advantages is inbreeding bigger.

And a good example of where we know this is true is in the case of malaria adaptations in instances where you have sickle cell anemia. Because in order to increase the heterozygosity of your genome for sickle cell alleles, you actually want to be slightly inbred with respect to those alleles. And there is therefore a very definite payoff to having higher levels of inbreeding in instances where you have high malaria. Because the advantages to being a heterozygote for sickle cell anemia, in terms of malaria resistance, is extremely high. So this would be a really good example of a wellstudied instance of inbreeding figure where there's a fitness benefit to being inbred.