---
layout:     post
title:      Greek city states just stopped having children
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - civilizational-declension
---

How good life have to be before g selection reverses? How low stress was life in Republican, early imperial Rome?

I don't think the the issue really is stress, which is a sort of a very vague concept. I think we have to talk about issues like, extrinsic morbidity and mortality versus intrinsic morbidity and mortality. So that's the degree to which the mortality is controllable versus uncontrollable. That's intrinsic is controllable, extrinsic is uncontrollable. So, I don't know much about that period of history, although it seems that there were certainly concerns voiced by individuals like Polybius of Megalopolis as far back as the second century bc, about citystates grecian citystates in particular, becoming so pacific and content with the way things are, that a decision was made on the part of the populace is to simply not have children. And this led to the collapse of these citystates in very short order.

So it looks like the seeds of the sort of more general dysgenic decline were already present in the grecoroman period at that point. I believe that the early imperial Rome period was more of a sort of silver age. So recapture some of the glory of the previous golden era. And in doing so, they were sort of harking back to, all the way back to the roman kingdoms. And they were looking at us almost mythical past to draw on as inspiration. So they tended to be very backwards looking, very much trying to recapture lost glory. And there was a pervasive sense at the time that the empire was necessary to sort of revive the fortunes of a failing and degenerating Republic. So, yes, one could say that there was this genic pressure already present in the populations at that point.

There was there was also this at the time when parts of Greece were, I think, sicily perhaps were taken by the romans, there was just this..., the chroniclers were writing of this disbelief that they didn't even fight back. They just kind of just sat there continuing to, you know, party or whatever. They just couldn't understand what was happening. It was like they were frozen in the headlights. They had become so rabbit frozen in the headlights. They've become so relaxed, so decadent, that they just didn't even try to fight back.