---
layout:     post
title:      Exogamy.md
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - exogamy
---

Is there an evolutionary reason why people often dislike mixedrace marriages? Do mixedrace marriages go against group interests and other exceptions? Mixedrace marriages involve a certain degree of collaboration with an outsider, don't they? So, you you would think that if there was a tight group, they would be against people marrying people from a different group.

Yes, I think there would be injunctions against that sort of thing, free riding. There would be controls on that. Within tightly groups which are tightly cohesive. Even within the arab world, you have strong, uh resistance to marriage. Simply between tribes, it's forbidden. it's strongly uh resisted.

Yes. So that would make sense. So it would mean it's free riding, and it's evidencing a low level of loyalty to the group, and also a risk of parasite contagion. Because this is the behavioral immune system hypothesis of Randy Thornhill and, corey fincher. the argument being that one of the reasons we evolved ethnolinguistic fractionalization was because of a parasitedriven wedge, whereby the parasites harbored by outgroup members were very costly to your in group. If you, as a member of an ingroup, were having to coadaptively compete with a local parasite, having parasites brought into your group from outside would be very costly, both in terms of the disrupting your genetic, coadapted gene complexes, and also in terms of just giving you novel immunological challenges to which you are not adapted. So a lot of our dislike of out groups might be coupled with our human sort of typical, tendency towards ethnic uh fractionalization might be strongly related to physical disgust type responses and the desire to keep dirty strangers away, essentially, right? So, so that would make sense. 

Do mixed priorities go against interest in that sense? Yes. And also, very much so. Yes. Then in that that case, yes, the Parasitedriven wedge hypothesis would, would predict, yes, very much so. And also, if there's intergroup conflict, then you end up with people who, who's whose? Um, side in that intergroup conflict, the offspring is not clear. And so you end up with a kind of fifth column within the group. 

Exceptions, presumably, would be groups that would be low in parasite stress. That would be like perhaps our own situation. 

I think that the the behavioral immune system model is over extended. So it's applied to far too it's been applied to try and explain far too broad a set of phenomena to a point where Thornhill put out a book recently. But the book basically, uh, the book basically just tries to use it to explain absolutely everything. And of course, well, if you have a mixed race child, that person has to take a side. Every one of these, alright, conferences i've been to recently, all three of them, there's been a mixed race person, and that person has had to decide. And of course, they've decided to be in favor of western civilization, because, yeah, it's the best. But there was a half indian girl the traditional Britain group, and there was somebody who's half iranian or something at the thing in oslo.