---
layout:     post
title:      AF super normally stimulate some WM
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - multi-racialism
---

How do you explain some men are attracted to neotenic mongoloid features and some are not?

Super normal stimulus theory. So basically, the idea is having some of this stimulating factor is good. Having more of it is better. So I think a lot of the neopne and particularly the the interest a lot of particularly white males have in in, you know, in asian females matched for age, but who are clearly, you know, very neop by by comparison, is driven by this sort of supernormal, uh, desire for a lot of males to have exaggerated, uh, signals of youthfulness among their female partners. But obviously, you know, to a reasonable point, because beyond a certain point, it's unattractive if the female is too young. You know, our normal males will find that unattractive, uh, except, you know, weird males, right? Um, right. There'd be some, there'd be some individual differences, yes, there's a cutoff. But the uh, but basically, having having honest signals, or hearttoface signals of youthfulness is among females, is something that is universally desired. You're trading things though, because with North East Asians, yeah, okay. They have these faces, youthful, good looking, but they tend to have very small breasts, almost like no breasts. So it's, it's all, it's almost like that. It could be individual, it could be the individual differences thing. Yes, there would be. There'd be, there'd have to be individual differences in the the cutoff point of what you found unattractive. Yeah. And in Japan, presumably there'd be further differences, and they'd be in a much more kind of, attracted to japanese people and and, um, attracted to, you attracted to, um, the mind rather than the body. And thus low investment and second essential characteristics, kind of direction. And so therefore, that would perhaps help to explain why there's this sort of, um, what we in the west would call, not pedophilia, what's the word? Ebophilia? Um um. Acceptability of evophilia in japanese culture, that would actually make sense, that they would, that their their cutoff point would be different from ours. A, because they're more attracted to, they understand that the they'd be better able to read the signals of health and whatever in East asians, be because they, they would be more attracted to the mind rather than the body, which the mind, as we know call it a high agreeable mind, call it with smaller boobs and things like this. So, so I think that would, that would make sense. So, um, that that, I hope that answers the question. I don't know if the, if the gentleman in the super chat, Mr Keck, how you feel about