---
layout:     post
title:      Group selected people are anti gay
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - group-selection
---

Why do most religions despise homosexuals?

Very good question. Um, probably tons and tons and tons of explanations have been given over the years. But one possibility is that homosexuality might, in some instances, be comorbid with behaviors which undermine group interests. And as a result, they are flagged by groups in intergroup competition as potential sort of threats to integrity. So that might be where some of the dislike comes from, is it could be due to comorbid factors of the comorbid with it

Are there many other explanations we could look at? One of the possibilities I read a paper today indicating that disgust sensitivity correlates with being disgusted by homosexuals. People who are more religious are higher in disgust sensitivity. So it could be generally because of that as well, their higher discuss sensitivity in this disgusts them. 

And why would it disgust them? Well, there was a study by Gordon Gallup that found that you become more disgusted by homosexuals, the more you are told in these kind of priming type whatever studies that they will have contact with your children. And and Gordon Gallup argued that this would be because there's a belief somehow that homosexuality can kind of be passed on. And it is true that if a boy is sexually abused by a homosexual male, he's more likely to become homosexual than if a female child is abused by a lesbian. So that could be another element to it as well. There's all kinds of reasons. There's many, many reasons why we would expect this relationship to exist.