---
layout:     post
title:      Convict deportations to Australia
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - human-evolution
---

What has been the effect of deportation of convicts and immigration particular classes to the colonies on the characters of those countries?

I have a theory. My theory is that the net that they spread was so big in terms of the sort of felonies that would get you deported um that most of the people who went off to colonize these farflung lands guilty of, not murder and homicide and the nasty sort of felonies that tended to get one get one hand. They tended to be guilty of things like theft, which might have been necessary to feed starving relatives and what have you. So these were sort of very lowgrade criminals, and this was considered a very mild punishment compared to the gallows, which was used for most other things at this point in time.

So what you probably ended up with was very large influx into places like Australia, fairly normal people, but people who who had committed these felonies out of desperation, maybe in some instances, but who were not sort of hardcore criminals, who were sort of people who were being removed through a sort of frost harpending type model, through capital punishment.

But presumably there would have been a bias towards the the the personality and intelligence traits of the criminal classes they're at that stage? Well, certain maybe with respect to certain sort of traits, maybe maybe the same trait makes you a bit of a risktaker when it comes to feeding that loaf of bread or what have you, also makes you a good pioneer, because under those circumstances, you're willing to take risks. And risks can pay off, such as when you steal that brand you don't get noticed. And risks can also have terrible costs. Terrible downsides. Are you when you do get caught and you get sent to Australia. So imagine you're in australia, and you're the sort of person who has to work out what's edible and what's not.

I suppose I'm one of the things that that predicts risktaking is extroversion. Yeah. And I i think it's quite noticeable with the Americans and with the australians that they're quite extrovert. Presumably, there's a degree I wanted to which extroversion could even commit crime, because you get a be associated with crime. I think it is actually mildly, because you get some sort of payback from it. Or, at least, as you say, creativity, lack of impulse control,

It is associated with impulsiveness and venturesomeness, and these also darkly dominant traits, essentially, which could indeed be associated with. When you look at the australian parliament, it's even more raucous than ours, right? The the House of commons, it's incredible. Well, here's a simple question.

We have across, we have crossnational data on sundry, uh countries and levels of extroversion and sundry  measures of a big five. We could always look at this couldn't we? Yes, we should. And, and you, you can think of various people who were, like, who were criminals in their own countries and, and who um in a minor way, things like fraud or, you know, white collar crime, and who, they went to Australia, turned over a new leaf, and have been incredibly successful.

The first school founded in sydney was founded by a fake priest, a guy who would have, like a way, pretending to be a priest, marrying people and whatever. Got it to the extent that he got a doctorate in theology from the university of aberdeen based on having a fake bachelor's degree in theology. And, and he was also a general fraudster. He conducted illegal marriages, and, and he did all kinds of there's a book about him somewhere. And he's just a total, you know, a real um, seriously, seriously dodgy fellow. But he went to Australia and he founded the first school in sydney, and then founded various other schools. And in a sense, he's behind the education system in Australia. And he's an absolute crook. Uh, he was married about five or six times he had numerous different children at one point. You've had a private school in buddley salters in in near exeter, in in devon, and it's extraordinary, extraordinary.