---
layout:     post
title:      Declining niche breadth
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - civilizational-declension
---

Opinion on the islamic golden age? Were middle eastern smarter and then suffered a dysgenic trend caused by warmer climate and mutation accumulation? Or could larger population than Europe explain greater scientific output?

Well, I think that there really was an islamical age. Historians have sort of disputed things. They're wrong. I think there was a period in which they were punching well above their weight category, demographically, in terms of the amount of innovative novelty that they were contributing to the world. What caused its decline, I think, clearly, was dysgenic trends. I think that Ivan Calden recognized this, although he didn't have a darwinian syntax essentially, within which to articulate his observations. He used this novel sort of model of his, this  asydia thing. But what he was seeing was essentially a collapse of group selection.

I mean, one thing that characterizes civilizational collapses, irrespective of where where you see the pact, anywhere in the world, so Cambodia, the Middle East, contemporary west, Et cetera. You always see one thing that they have in common. This is something that golden actually recognized in the in the case of the, the, uh, the ottoman empire. And that was that you get this process of despecialization. So in other words, these forms of environmental, sorry, these forms of ecological pluralism, which are needed by a group that is successful in intergroup competition. Because what the ecological pluralism among its members does is it adds to the aggregate efficiency of the group. That raises its comparative advantage and competition of other groups, because you have more endogenous division of labor within the group. So collapsing groups are always characterized by despecialization. And that means you get, like, a collapse in the hierarchy within the group. So in other words, what used to be very densely layered, heavily sort of ritualized, circumscribed hierarchy, like, I don't know, peerage, for example, in the case of great Britain, just collapses down into a small number of categories, like a generic elite and the underclass.

And then you have a situation in which, uh, all of this sort of technical specialization that goes on within the group, all this role differentiation, gets sort of crushed, and people get forced into these sort of narrow, homogeneous niches where they're all more or less competing to do the same thing. And that can reflect exogenous pressures acting on the niche of the culture itself. Because what the culture is doing is contracting. Therefore, the decrease in the complexity among that it can actually sustain among itself, within and among its members, is going to therefore be a function of the reduction in territory and the reduction of sort of habitat, or niche breadth, uh, occupied by that culture.

We actually have very, very good data on this. In the case of the french and the british published in the journal politics and life sciences. You can actually see the group fitness of Britain increasing as the british empire increases in terms of its geographical extent and the sort of standing population size of ethnic brits, or britannic people, as we call them, versus ethnic gauls, or gallic people, who are sort of compressed and crushed, uh, under the weight of the british empire. They're forced and forced to occupy these these smaller and smaller niches geographically, culturally. The population ends up specializing variances. The traits go down, because we can track those over time as well. And you see this, you see this general collapse dynamic happens as british empire sort of, uh, arcs to supremacy. And, um, I think that's a general thing. And I suspect a similar thing would be at play in case of the decline of these sort of middle eastern high cultures, historically, they probably follow the same trajectory.

Yes, I would agree. I would look at a different perspective. But if you look at the way that Islam operated, you have, you have this culture this dominant culture, this culture that's become decadent in the form of the culture at the time of Mecca, the pagan culture of Mecca, and also of the various christian groups that were scattered around the Middle East. You have this muhammad, this charismatic figure, peace be upon him. Who brings about this? This this cult from whatever has all these are, these are the ideas, parallels in many ways. The mormons actually are a polygamous, uh, cult, uh, based around sort of, sort of development of christianity. Really kind of cool christian sect in some ways. Um, brings together christianity and their version of paganism. And it expands, it expands ruthless, a brilliant military leader, Tactician. As Ib kaldun argued, the assabiar of these desert tribesmen is high. The asbr of those that they're up against is low. And so and so they they expand, and they become dominant. At the same time, of course, you've got this process of the of probably more intelligent people being inclined to convert something new and convert to Islam. You've got this process of of of as as they become dominant, when Turkey, other groups will marry into it.

A lot of people argue that all these like all the Muslims did was just get the knowledge of the Greeks and the knowledge of the Jews and just preserve that, really. And there is an extent to which that's true. I mean, you could argue the Romans didn't do much other than other than little developments of what the Greeks had done. It's certainly the case that there were original inventions by the Muslims. The introduction of a simpler writing system, introduction of paper, contribution optics, mathematics, the concept of the struggle of existence, which is similar to evolution. The idea humans would have said it from animals. Medicine, the idea that hospitals should be built in places where meat putrefy slowly, so they had some kind of understanding of or bacteria, really. And and the the disease in which, which, wasn't the case in in in the west, invention of the automatic flute, the sextant, the simple numerals, you know, the fork even. Say there were there were definite muslim inventions.

Intelligent people have stopped and stopped breeding, basically. They'd lost their religiousness. They'd lost this idea that it's God's will for you to have lots of children. Uh, and therefore, which seems to happen in high civilizations. And consequently, they were becoming stupider. So I wouldn't be at all surprised there was a period of time where Islam, muslim people, were more intelligent than the europeans. Um, and, and this carried on until Islam itself became decadent and was displaced around about 1100 by the crusade. The crusaders. As they, as they made the normans, as they were the ones with the sbr and the fervor and the gods on our side and all this. And they made their way in sac Jerusalem and, um, and whatever. So I think that's, and certainly we know that Islam permitted, infanticide. It permit um in a very early stage of pregnancy, admitted abortion. It uh permitted. Uh, there was it was okay to have courts interrupt us. So basically, contraception was allowed. And this was something that was taboo among christians. And so you can see this is going to have a negative impact, almost certainly, on intelligence. And, yeah. So I would say it was a genuine golden age. Those people that dislike Muslims out there are going to have to accept that, I'm afraid. It was a genuine golden age. And they were more intelligent and advanced than we were.

Donald Templar used to promote the idea that they were the best, sort of, treading water and maintaining the gains of the greek civilization. But ultimately, what's going to put pay to this sort of talk is the issue of uh, polygenic scoring of remains. So once we've been able to do that, we've been able to establish that at this point in their history, they were every bit as smart as their innovation profile would suggest that they are, then we're going to have a definitive answer to this question.