---
layout:     post
title:      Women want extraverted offspring not intelligent
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
home: true
tags:
 - selection-ecology
 - big-5
---

Extroversion and Iq correlation. 

We have new data on this. This is very interesting. Extroversion and iq are slightly negatively correlated, based on a massive matter analysis that hasn't been published yet. I'd love it to be, authors would go ahead and publish it. It was a master's thesis. But, yes, they found very slight negative correlations, I think in the north negative point one ish range. The master's thesis can be downloaded online, so the individual responsible for this will not mind me reporting the results. I did download it, however. It's relevant to a broader interest of mine: what sort of traits are going to get promoted under a regime of artificial selection, where people get to choose what their offspring indeed?

So basically what you're saying is that if people choose their offspring, they will choose very weakly, stupidity, women. **Women overwhelmingly want highly extroverted offspring. They do not want highly intelligent offspring**. So in terms of the genetic correlation between those traits, that will make it negative very quickly?

I suspect it is a genetic correlation. That's a standing prediction I have. I suspect that when you one of the reasons these things are correlated, the way that they're correlated, is because of recent patterns of directional selection, a very intense directional selection, which has been operating on these populations for the last 200 years.

Can I just interject that, wouldn't it be the case that if there's a, there's a negative relationship between, uh, selfconfidence, basically, and and iq? Isn't there people that people that have high iq are less selfconfident, they have lower selfesteem. They, they, that's, that's fair enough, isn't it? So couldn't that explain this extroversion iq relationship? And that would kind of make it a more environmental kind of thing.

Well, it could do. But at the same time, we need to do the work. We need to tease apart the variance components. And the problem with the correlation between Iq and extroversion is it's rather small. So you need a very, very large sample to really get at the shared genetic variants among the components, which are largely independent of one another. And you can do power calculations to work out exactly how much, how many twins you need to throw at this. But there might be a simpler way of doing it. I have a data set in which I have polygenic scores for iq, actually, some very good ones. And I actually have two data sets, in which I have polygenic scores for iq, and I also have a phenotype data on some of the big five. So I can always check these out, see if extraversion is in there. And wouldn't this be a really interesting study to just see if I can use the polygenic scores for Iq to mediate any phenotypic associations between iq and extroversion that we find in those data sets? Then we don't need the twins. And we can also, we can also increase the power to detect the effect, as my sample size is like 10 000 each for both of the studies. 

And you could also look at the relationship between blue eyes and extroversion. I don't think we have anthropometric markers in this data set. It was interesting, there was, I found some research which said this, extroversion is, so extraversion is part of the gfp factor, a measure of socially effectiveness, which means you're likely to do well in life, and you have high status. And it's an aspect of extroversion, I suppose, rather than extroversion in general. But I understand that extroversion is weakly associated with the sort of shortterm sexual relationships.

Insofar as it's probably related to, venturesomeness, dominance. So this is one of Kevin Mcdonald's ideas from way back when he was a personality psychologist studying the evolution of personality. He had this idea that the big five in humans should be made to look more like the big five in chimps, because there's a big five in chimpanzees and gorillas, and instead of an extroversion and an agreeableness factor, they have a dominance factor, which is sort of captures dominance and they have a warmth and affiliativeness factor instead of an agreeableness.

So what Kevin argued is we should sort of tweak the factor structures by imposing these these rotations, these partial rotations, these oblamin rotations, in order to recover these more evolutionarily informed big fives. You still have the big five, it's just you forced certain things to become extroversion and you forced certain things to become agreeableness. And in doing so, you've made them into slightly different things that align a bit more with what we notice in in primates. So it would be interesting to see what happens to the gfp. When you, when you do those rotations, does this flip the sign of the association between extroversion the gfp?

My longstanding prediction is yes. It should actually make the association of a gfp negative. Because now what you're doing is you're getting, instead of all the gregariousness stuff, right, which you're now possibly forcing into agreeableness as part of this affiliative factor. So all the gregariousness stuff that would ordinarily rate you as high extroversion. He's like going out and interacting with people. But you don't necessarily like dominating them, you know, trying to take control. You're not highly directive. To use John J Ray's old term for his scale from the 1970s on authoritarian behavior, which he called the directiveness measure. The best measure of authoritarian responding we have, by the way, is ray's directedness scale. So in other words, you're getting a directiveness scale, and you're, you're putting that, you're putting that directive scale possibly in negative conjunction with the gfp. It'd be very interesting to see what that does to the factor structure.