---
layout:     post
title:      The Individually Selected World Order
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - flexumility-monumentalism
 - new-world-order
 - social-epistasis
---

How much of a part does the mismatch between more group selected, nonmutated individuals and the culture of modernity playing the increased prevalence of nihilism, anxiety, psychopathology, etc.

When you have individuals in charge of managing culture, or generating culture, who are not sort of innately oriented towards groupish type pursuits. So they're not religious, and they, you know, but not monumentalistic in terms of their thinking and orientation, but not civilizationally oriented. And they don't think about the glory of God or the glory of their civilization. They think in terms of nongroups to referential frames. And I'm not going to list those frames... List a couple. Okay, inordinate interest in say, absolute, complete fungibility of all social roles. And that all differences are due to just sociable sort of stigma and discrimination and stereotypes, and that there's no natural variation. It's just due to contingent power relations. Those sort of beliefs.

When you have people who are really committed to that as a kind of moral prior then and and those people are in a position of social authority, they will create a virtue out of those sort of values. And in so doing, they'll color the society in terms of, in terms of what becomes fashionable for people to sort of espouse and promulgate. It end up that everybody runs around imitating them, because people imitate the successful.

So if you replace those people with, people who high on flexumility, with people who are high on monumentalism, which is the more group selected orientation. They make a virtue out of those monumentalist values. And all of a sudden you find people running around doing the opposite thing, or going to church and having bigger families. And, you know, thinking in terms of civilizational time frames, what foodback and stuff in their mouth the next day, which is sort of the of the abiding interest of the majority of people in the west today.

So essentially, a lot hinges on the composition of the elite, and a lot hinges on the sort of orientation of the elite and the sort of value system that they hold dear. And if indeed you have the odds spiteful mutant among the elite. Somebody who's really committed to, uh, pushing the things attract actively bad, not just for them as individuals, but the entire group, then you have a terrible problem, because that will lead to all sorts of negative behavioral trends arising within the population, such as increases in rates of depression, dropping testosterone levels, decreasing religiosity, Et cetera, documented in the monograph we have, this is not us saying this, we have data on this. So  these statements are backed up empirically. That's pretty much how I see the relationship between the position of the elite and sort of the health of society as a whole. They're intimately linked with one another through these broader patterns of selection.