---
layout:     post
title:      84 percent of genome active in the brain
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genetic-determinism
---

What is the source of that percentage of the genome related to the brain? So this 84 percent thing. That's a paper which was published.

Ed Lein, I think was the name of the author of the paper. And it was 84. So what they did is they did a functional analysis of the genes, essentially, in the genomes. They worked out, using a technique called expression profiling um. And that's where, but you can work out where the gene, you can take different tissues, and you can work out which genes are active, essentially, and actually producing, um, you know, transcription products and things, by looking at the rna or the proteome or what have you. And it turns out that in the brain, there's a lot more, a lot higher percentage of the genome seems to be active at any given point in time than in other parts of the body, suggesting that a larger percentage of the genome is responsible for doing something involving the brain. And that could be, uh, anything from maintenance these are genes which could be expressed in the course of development. These could be genes which are necessary. 

I'll tell you, I'll tell you where the 88 number might have come from. It might have come from a guesstimate that Jeffrey Miller made many, many years ago. He tried to guess the percentage of the genome that was involved in some way in the brain, right? And I think he came up with 88. It turns out he's very close. 84. There we go, just cross checking 84. Okay? Because the people like that. They like a