---
layout:     post
title:      Revising Haidt's moral foundations + negative egalitarianism
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - moral-foundations
---

I've been playing around with my own revision to the Haidt scales, because i've sort of thrown out Haidt's model, which I think is wrong. And I've rejiggered his items to make a better version of his scale, where, instead of measuring these five moral foundations, I found that really there's just two, and that the best way of getting the political left right continuum, is to find the tilt. So you have individualizing and binding moral foundations, and then you just compute the different score between them, and that gives you a left and a right.

It's quite nice, actually, because people high on binding tend to be high on group oriented behaviors. They tend to be high on religion, they tend to be high on sort of, you know, community orientation. There's people who are high on individualizing also tend to be sort of overly concerned with equality and, you know, their own status relative to others and all this sort of thing. So really there's just this one dimension there.

And I've been finding that it correlates quite strongly with measures of sort of home brokenness. Essentially, whether there's been experiences of violence in in the childhood environment. We've got correlations between individualizing tilt and having come from a home where the subject was exposed to violence as a child, for example. So it looks like violence in the home may begat leftist moral foundations through possibly some epigenetic route

You're saying that people who are leftist are more likely to have experienced violence in the home. Yes, that's right. But so it could also be, but the there are genetic correlations there between genes that predispose one towards dysfunctionality and violence, and also genes that predispose one towards being incredibly self rather than other focused, as seems to be characteristic of those who score high on these individualizing moral foundations. And we found a lot of that concern for equality is not born out of a existential concern for equality. It's born out of a, where do I rank relative to others, and how can I pull others down towards me. And how can I have a little playing field in my favor? It's that kind of a thing essentially. You could call it negativity egalitarianism.

Gerhard Nasenberg has done a very interesting review of superior for mankind courtly next edition, in which he argues that the right that this about the writer, basically that that's, that's true of her, exactly that. And not only that, but that she is only interested in those who are in her group. And you're only in her group if you're equal to her in some way. And if you're not equal to her, then you're not in her group. So it's the ultimate sort of selfishness here.

I've been trying to tie my head around, which is based on the idea that it doesn't make sense initially to think, people who are highly individualistic in that sense, as being also high on equality preferences. But when you think about it in this way, it makes a lot of sense. Moreover it leads one to the conclusion that there exists a form of positive and negative egalitarianism. Just as there are positive and negative forms of ethnocentrism and misogyny, there are also positive and negative forms of egalitarianism. And the sort of egalitarianism which is based on leveling and elimination of differences in order to raise comparative advantage would be a sort of negative specie of egalitarianism. 

Whereas the sort of egalitarianism where you're concerned about, for example, you're concerned about the, you know, the overall condition of the poor and then do you believe that there's some role for charity and sort of ameliorating the hardships of the, you know, what victorian will refer to as the deserving poor. Or conversely, you are someone who is very concerned with, you know, the possibility of people becoming so wealthy that they in so doing, they start to damage the interests of their organic polity. Their corporate polity. That form of egalitarianism, which is not a sort of leftist egalitarianism, it's more of a kind of rightist egalitarianism, because it often gels with sort of traditional notions of how societies should be structured and put together. And limited. If you look at, if you look at if you look at distributism as a model of economics, for example, and the sort of teachings, of the social teachings of the catholic church in the 20s and 30s, and things, you can see lots of lots of evidence of this sort of positive egalitarianism, where it's born out of a real concern for how excessive inequality could damage the corporate sort of wellbeing.

These negativity egalitarians, though, it's not just, I mean, they they want to suppress the evidence of the existence of differences between groups of people. They don't want to suppress evidence of the existence of differences, they're happy to accept that there are differences, it's the etiology of the differences. So they don't want any talk about the differences being caused by genetics. So they get very uncomfortable if you point out that, say, socioeconomic status and Iq are genetically correlated and actually share genetic variants through a common set of apparently causal variants. So you can use, you know, polygenic scores for iq to predict differences in educational attainment as differences in socioeconomic status. So basically it seems to be the can the cause is something. But people are more negative, negative egalitarian. Why do you think that's the case?

This is, this is something I want to get at through scale construction. I actually want to try and build a scale, an instrument that I can validate, that can measure and differentiate between these two types of egalitarianism. Just as there are scales for positive and negative ethnocentrism, which have already been validated, I would like to build a similar one for egalitarianism. But why that might be the case? I don't know. It maybe it's you maybe these people who are high on negative egalitarianism, as Darwin says, bear the indelible stamp of their lowly origins in some way, and don't want to think that in any aspect of their past, or any aspect of their immediate familial history, is an impediment to their actual success

It struck me as consistent with what you were saying about leftwing people having had more violent childhoods, that they that they on some sort of cognitive dissonance level. They realize that the nature of the the nature is read in tooth and claw, and they are a product of that. And, that's them. That's what's made them who they are, that these differences, these big, genetic, in indelible, as you say, indelible differences, and that they just can't deal with that. And knowing that, they have to be able to feel that they are not disgusting. There's something disgusting about their origins. They're disgusted by part of themselves. 

Well, actually, a colleague of mine who's been teaching for a very, very long period of time, he has noted anecdotally that those who are the most resistant to behavior genetic perspectives are typically those who selfidentify as having come from a background of dysfunctionality. And they don't want to think that their background, in terms of a familial background and sort of generally dysfunctional context from which they arose, could play any kind of a role in making them who they are. They, they want, they kind of believe in a super free will. They want your person and your process of selfactualization to be completely decoupled from genetic constraints. And they want this, you know process of personal evolution essentially to be to be entirely independent of anything like that, material that could hold them back. 

The character is entirely in our own hands. Don't forget that, my baby.