---
layout:     post
title:      Guilt vs Shame culture
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - cancel-culture
---

When I see the Chinese freaking out and being selfish with lots of negative externalities and no regard for the wellbeing of their fellow countrymen, it seems they are low in empathy, but perhaps the higher social anxiety and ethnocentrism makes up for it. So they evolved for dense urban environments. Does social anxiety work better than empathy as a certain population size? Because you can't empathize, truly empathize, with more than dunbar's number, while social anxiety scales with the population size. So the effects of social anxiety scales with population density, whilst Empathy doesn't scale well in large cities. China has historically had large cities, and so they have evolved too that.

That's a very interesting question. Yeah, it is interesting, isn't it? That the Chinese, based on research by Rushton and this sort of thing, the argument is that they are higher in measures of agreeableness and whatever than european people, but they do have a capacity to be quite extraordinarily cruel. But I wonder if that was just, um, a general ethnocentric attitude, towards things that are out group. 

It's quite interesting question. Well, it's, it is interesting. And I think that the, you know, these people are very inward looking and very, remember a little while ago we talked about the distinction between shame and guilt. And the ability to experience guilt is quite possibly something that's unique to european people. And the which is why we don't have shame culture in this in in these countries, we, we capitalize on guilt instead. And we, the idea is that guilt gives you an internal ability to correct your decisions right, to make right and do the right thing. Whereas in a shame culture, you will get do the wrong thing if you can get away with it, but there are powerful social forces that will act to curb that tendency through public and be prevalent shaming. And I think that that's a little understood and critically underexplored distinction. Actually, the closest of anyone who got to this was [__ __] before he sort of ran off and started giving testimony to the splc and everything. Before he sort of changed, he used to be very interested in group differences and things.

But humility might be a very uniquely european thing, and it's possible that something like that might relate to this shame guilt distinction. And it's a, it's something that's underexplored. It's something I would like to explore more, because it would explain certainly, why it is that you you get these very, seemingly very contradictory behaviors in east asian people. You get very selfish behavior among individuals, a lot of corruption. But then you get these, you get this strong tendency to come into line and do what the leadership tells you to do. And there's, you know, there's almost like a powerful social control system that they have there that can force people to do things which are right by the group, essentially when it's necessary to do so. And it seems to revolve around shaming, rather than actually guilting people, about capitalizing on people's guilt.

We know virtually nothing about the relevant group differences. And as you can imagine, that people aren't really going to jump at the chance to study them many times soon, however, interesting question might be, because, you know, controversy, yeah, exactly.

It's been suggested, there was a paper by a woman called Talia Lainey called shame on us. And it was about the finish, there was some sort of finished doping scandal or something like this in sport 20 or 30 years ago. And this was a huge thing in finland. And and she argued that finland, unlike other european countries, is a shame culture. And certainly, impressionistically, that was the impression I got, that there is a great interest in what other people think of you. That's the allimportant thing. Or other, what do other people think of you? I that's so terribly [ _ _ ]. And i'm, I'm afraid, not a person's particularly high in shame, and so I don't really care.

Yeah, I think, I think that's, that's something i've noticed, just from sort of casually interrogating people within our community, is shame seems to be the main factor which determines whether you kind of stay the course as a controversialist or not. Because you get, there are certain people in our who've been in our community, and that have left and decided to become pc and, you know, sort of denounced and want anything to do with group differences stuff, or got into trouble and backed away. I'm not going to name names. And the thing they all seem to have in common is is that these researchers tend to experience intense shame.

They're completely opportunistic. They, they'll, they studied, they put their names on papers examining race differences and making a case of the reasons why we need to study these and everything. So total opportunists. But as soon as they experience any kind of blowback, they get shamed and they have to drop it, and they, they don't turn on you and all that sort of thing. Whereas opposingly, you get a lot of people like, well, again, we know examples of this, who are totally the opposite. You can shame them and shame them and shame them, and it's not going to stop them from doing but doing research. As a matter of fact, it just makes them more intent, more likely to do more of it. Real source of divisions, even within our own sort of a human biodiversity group or whatever, you know, whatever we'd be, right? Differential psychologists.

But, you have to be publicly condemned by a university that you're associated with, otherwise you're not, you're not really in the gag, publicly condemned or stripped of your job, or something like that. I don't know that any of, any of them have turned on us or become, openly pc warriors, but certainly, yes, I can think of examples, unfortunately, people that have cucked. And, and then there's a further shame, which is that they do the first shame of because of this, and then they're too ashamed to come again to the London conference on intelligence because of the shame of having done this to this particular group. And so there's just shame kind of everywhere. You know, there's no, there's 

You know what's amazing is the opportunism that these people show is that they're complete opportunists. And if they hadn't been shamed, they'd be quite happy to just collaborate with us. And there's no, there's no like, basic principle there or anything. It's just, it's just all about perceptions management. And i, you know, i, I guess some people are like that.

What motivates them to do it in the first place though, because it's taking a tremendous risk to do something. Opportunism, I think, because it seemed that there was a sort of space opening up, like a, you know, a flowering of opportunity within this field. And if you recall, just before the [ _ _ ] hit the fan with the lci, it was a completely manufactured controversy, by the way. It wasn't organic in any way whatsoever. It was just a hit job. Um, the, uh, when the, as soon as, you know, as soon as when lci started, it was great. People were going there. We had all sorts of interesting people, lots of people who, some people who are not not necessarily there to talk about group differences. You don't work on group differences. You work on, like, cognitive psychology and stuff like that. And, and. And there seemed to be this sort of space that existed within academic publishing as well for talking about this. And a lot of people thought that, I think, things were just going to get better, and the sort of constraints on this research were going to get lifted, and there were going to be more opportunities. A lot of more opportunistic people wanted in, right? They wanted to take advantage of what they saw as sort of growing opportunities within the field. But then then all of a sudden, things get shut down, right, very rapidly as a result of the negative controversy. And, uh, the you know, those people see no opportunities there, so they're just gtfo.

 I would, I would answer the question, is social anxiety more important than empathy? Very possibly yes. What does guilt involve? You feel bad that you've done something because that's, say, it's hurt somebody else, so you haven't lived up to your own expectations of how you should behave. That's a bit like empathy. I think it's a bit like, you are empathetic and you've ballsed it up. That's guilt. And so and social anxiety is much more than just that. You want, don't want to look bad.