---
layout:     post
title:      World wars massive culling of fast or slow life history men
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - life-history
---

World wars a massive disgenic calling of K men? 

It would be certainly a calling of group selected men. And I suppose there's a crossover between being group selected and being k. And also, at the group level, intelligence correlates with K so if we're talking about social classes and things, it seems that the most recent wars killed the more intelligent, because the more intelligent and more prosocial, and they're more likely to become officers, and that's more likely to be killed. 

And there are these mad people, by the way, that say that I'm wrong when I say the officers are not more likely to be killed. They are more likely to be killed. Ask anyone that's been in the army. Um, so the higher up the ranks you are, the more likely you are to be killed, because you're leading them into battle. So I would say, yes, world wars may well have a dysgenic effect on K men. 

We have it for intelligence. We know that the both world wars kill that high iq, people. Do we know about K?

No, actually, I predict the opposite. I'd say highly K selected individuals would be less likely to die in combat. Because they will take fewer risks. It's the risk takers in the time, in times of war, who are more likely to end up so it's probably going to be highly, highly intelligent, very fast life history people. The sort of people who leap over the top, right and really lead from the front. Those are going to be very fast life history individuals. And those are people who are going to be more likely to end up dead in a time of war. But they're also going more likely to be the sort of people who lay the groundwork for your eventual victory in in a time of war.

What about the idea of people making sacrifices for other people, and those people being more likely to be k selected? I think, I think where the k strategists would advantage you militarily would be in sort of logistics. These are sort of people who are going to be big picture thinkers in terms of making sure that everything is where it needs to be, and that if you're walking through no man's land, and your friend is shot in the leg right? Isn't the k strategist more likely to kind of pick him up and try and carry him along?

No, I think it's more likely to be fast like this person who does that. Then that person is being selfless, Yes, and I think fast life history, individuals actually can be selfless under certain ecological contingencies. Why? Well, if they're not completely stupid, right? Then they realize that helping other people in a time of war is a good thing. You would be risking your life, though, by by helping that colleague of yours, you would be risking your life, yes? But let's say you have very little selfregard. And you are someone who is very, very high unpredictability schematic, you're driven by a sense of duty. So in other words, you have a sense that I need to do this thing for these other people. I think that might relate more to g. We know that high g is related to altruism. Some have argued that high g is a costly signal of altruism. So, in other words, having high g in order to signal that you need to do things which are costly to yourself in order to signal that you have high levels of it. So being altruistic in a time there might be cognitive rather than conative altruisms, which combine with fast life history to make you into a very effective risk taker of the sort who will benefit your men in a time of war. 

Okay. Well we have two very different answers to that question. So the the um opinion is divided on the subject.