---
layout:     post
title:      Fermi solution
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - autism
 - dysgenics
 - civilizational-declension
 - group-selection
---

If being red pilled, um is correlated with crippling autism, well, then about crippling. But certainly, does this mean that the population has a maximum level of woke? Is being a normie, a biological condition?

It seems so. There's research that indicates that people who are, um, let's say, very highly intelligent, also have these autistic traits. And in that, as you say, the more autistic you become, um, the more sort of crippling it is, are, the more difficult and problematic it is, and the more difficult is to get on with people and to, convey the truth. Uh, you know, you can know the truth, but to actually convey it, then, presumably, this would imply that have to be some sort of of maximum level of wokeness. If the more autistic you are, the more woke you are, then there's going to get a point where, at the very least, people who are very woke will be unable to express themselves to normal people will be useless. Presumably there's a maximum level of high functioning autism. I would, I would, I would assume there's a max beyond which it's...

And the other thing is that, if, if high functioning autism is a product of high intelligence, then presumably, as people become, uh, more intelligent, and the positive manifold between the different kinds of intelligence, becomes weaker, then at a certain level of intelligence, they will be so useless at everyday things that they will have problems functioning at all. 

You get cases of this. Who was that, uh, great genius scientist who starved to death when his wife went on holiday? Oh, yes, I rememeber one. Yeah. Um, I forget his name, but anyway, so you get, you get, you you get problems of of that kind. Yeah. He was paranoid about his food being poisoned. That's right. So, you don't know, his wife, before, his wife was in or something, and she couldn't cook, and so he starved to death like that.

Actually, there's another chap called Oliver Heavyside, after whom the heavyside layer in the atmosphere, is named and he was completely mad. He had this big old house, and he filled it up with concrete blocks instead of furniture. He just had concrete blocks put in there to sit on and sleep on.

But anyway, so what what I was thinking about that was that then, presumably people have this idea of eugenics and this possibility of making people more more intelligent. But it struck me that if if we get, presumably above a certain level of intelligence, then as a society, then our kind of natural instincts and ability to do normal things and everyday things will just collapse to such an extent that we won't be able to really sort of function. Now, I suppose we could create robots to do those things. But anyway, it it leaves me as wondering whether there's a kind of a cycle of intelligence. And it has to be like that, because if we get too intelligent, then we become so kind of autistic, really, that we become disinterested in everyday things, and we don't breed, and we die out.

Well, it seems like the limiting factor on intelligence is the degree to which, uh, when people get sufficiently intelligent, they decide not to have children. So this seems to be the limiting factor time after time again in the histories of civilizations, going all the way back to polybius, who, in the second century bc, was talking, as we note in our book, was talking about whole Greek citystates which were basically going extinct within 25 years or what happened? Because all of a sudden they got it into their minds. So it was a jolly good idea not to have children. And this was to be a uniquely high Iq pathology.

So it seems that, yes when you're able to, when you're able to decontextualize so much that you actually start to treat children as an abstract problem to be solved by simply not having them, then yes, you, you will. You will end up entering into a dysgenic situation. And uh, selection will favor the lower levels of intelligence, simply because it's coupled with high levels of fertility. And Darwin is indifferent to the direction of selection, this sort of mythical notion that selection is somehow has a preferred vector or direction. It doesn't um. Selection favors whatever leads to the greatest fitness outcomes. And if having lower levels of intelligence leads to greater fitness outcomes.

But you talk about the abstract problem of children, but, I mean, this was among a certain class in the society. It was a class in the society who were living quite luxurious lives, who were very low in stress, who had very low mortality salience by the standards of the time. So presumably it's the interaction between high intelligence and not being stressed that kind of makes you less instinctive. Is that a fair summary?

I'm not sure about that. Because the data suggests, or rather strongly indicate, that genetically speaking, intelligence and fertility are negatively associated. So individuals with high Iq actually have all else being equal. So if you control for education and you control their income, and you control for all these environmental covariates, high iq genes or poly genes, actually negatively predict fertility. So it seems that some of the variants that are associated with low fertility are also directly associated with higher iq. But there's a thing called pliotropy.

Why would that be the case? Well, because this is what happens when you have chronic selection below intelligence that's extremely strong, as it has been over the last 200 years. And and the selection pressure has been really rather strong. As currently, the average correlation strength between Iq and fertility is negative, point one, five. That means that Iq predicts over one percent of the variance in fertility. You might think, well, that's nothing. That's actually a huge correlation, from a selection pressure standpoint, that can easily lead to you losing half an iq point a decade or more.

I don't understand. I'm saying, why would there be a negative correlation? Why they didn't used to be at the genetic level. No, so what's happened? What's happened is fertility has, fertility and low iq are both favored. So high fertility goes with low iq. Therefore you get a selection for genetic correlation between the two, which is negative. 

How does this come about? this was happening in ancient Greece, and they didn't have hundreds of years of this extreme negative selection like we did.

They did have hundreds of years of strong negative selection. The the decline of greek civilization, the decline of that whole sort of latin civilization, for want of a better term lasted about 400 years. So they were in a period of very protracted, dysgenic fertility. But you're asking a mechanistic question. You're asking about how how negative correlations come into being. Well the way that works is you have basically selection. Contrary to what people like Fisher believed, so this is Ronald Fisher. Fisher argued, originally in the 1920s, that when you had a trade that was under selection, all that variation in the trade got used up essentially. So you could always tell a trait that was under strong selection, because all of that variability in the trade gets used up essentially, and the heritability drops because it's exhausted by the process of selection.

However, it turns out that's not the case for directional selection or disrupted selection. It's only the case for stabilizing selection, where selection's trying to optimize a population with respect to a specific level of a trait. In the case of other forms of selection, you often get a situation in which selection will actually boost the heritability of the trait. And the way it does this is it borrows a little additivity from other traits, and in so doing, it brings those traits into genetic covariance with the trait under selection. So you end up with multivariate selection, which creates what's called a g matrix. That's not quite the same thing as general intelligence, but like general intelligence, it's a kind of latent factor of selection. So it's a big g the g matrix, or matrix of genetic covariance.

So the direction of selection will, you know, you always get a situation which the direction of selection can be predicted based on the gradient of fitness. So the traits which are under strong selection are going to be the ones which are correlated in some way the largest number of offspring. In the case of iq, the entry, the sign on the term, is negative, meaning that low iq loads positively on the G matrix with high fertility, and with a whole bunch of other things as well that make up the g matrix. And selection is acting on that g matrix because it's selecting all the genetic variation that's pulled together among all those traits which are under directional selection. And that's how, that's how intelligence has become negatively associated with Iq and, sorry, with fertility. And it doesn't take very long for the sign on the terms in this g matrix to actually shift. Um, it can, it can happen within a matter of a few hundred years. It's really nothing.

But it was, that was cause, that genetic relationship was ultimately caused by the the takeup of contraception among the more intelligent.

Well, i'd say it started, it antidated that, really, really started when you had a, uh, you know, when you had a rise in global temperature, which led to less extrinsic morbidity and mortality. Because the people who had problems controlling mortality and morbidity would have been people with low levels of intelligence. They would have been the ones who would have been vulnerable to these ecological stress factors. As soon as things got a little bit better, as soon as we came out of the maunder minimum, and the thames stopped freezing over, and all those brutal paintings, you know, stopped happening with all the ice and everything, as soon as we got into this sort of modern period, essentially, where temperatures have been getting a bit warmer, um, you had a relaxation of those ecological stresses. 

And you can look at this, if you look at the indexing of things like grain prices from the work of David Hackett Fisher, in the modern period, grain prices are very stable and typically very low, because the variation in temperature is low and the actual level of mean temperature is relatively high. So you get lots of grain, you get plentiful grain, predictable harvests, etc. Which means there's no famine, there's no, you know, scarcity that's random and unpredictable, which means there's no right?

And the other thing is group selection. Don't forget, when things get warmer, groups get more pacific, and they're less likely to want to expand into other groups territory in order to secure additional resources, because they have plenty of resources at home. So it demobilizes groups. It actually reduces the strength of intergroup competition. And this means social pressures by group violence, right? Where where people with low iq are more likely to suffer as a result of intragroup violence, right? It's a source of mortality and morbidity that they can't control. It's extrinsic, right? Those people, those people also benefit from more intraintergroup peace.

So you have intergroup peace, higher temperature, less ecological stress, ie, less variability in food production, more food production. Plus, as you mentioned, quite rightly earlier, on top of all that, you have a population that's smart enough to solve certain abstract problems related to managing fertility, such as finding better ways of controlling morbidity and mortality through hygiene, an innovation of germ Theory of disease, and innovations in medicine and vaccines and things like that. Contraceptives, of course, this is Richard Lynn's favorite one, the contraceptives would have played a huge role, especially early on during the uptake. Abortions, maybe, although the data seems to be a bit sort of sketchy on that. There seems to be no real association, but it needs, I think, unpacking a little bit more. But all these fertility control technologies seem to be more or less dysgenic in terms of the way in which they, you know, they skew fertility in the population.