---
layout:     post
title:      Where the Victorians smarter than ancient Greeks
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - iq
---

There had been a discussion about whether the athenians had an iq of around 125, around the time of Aristotle, etcetera. In terms of per capita innovations, seemingly probably not, but if we go back further to the mycenaean. Of course, there's this divorce between, the problem with the current knowledge that we have is there's this divorce between Iq and intelligence (the co-occurance model). And so we seem to think that intelligence reaches a peak around 1870, based on per capita genius. And then seems to start to go down. And based on the research on reaction times, it was 15 points higher or bit less in 1880 than in the year 2000. Maybe 10 points, something like that. We would never exaggerate things in order to get it off the daily mail? No, no. Let's say 110. And we've gone down by 10 points in the last 120 or so years. And it would have been higher in 1880, so it would have been higher 80 years earlier. Could it have been as high as 125, you think, in 1800?

That's a good question, I don't know, is the honest answer. The only way we're going to answer this question is with polygenic scores. There was a null selection pressure for a couple of decades, so you wouldn't be able to generalize that linear trend into the past, because it would be more like a rectangular Hyperbola function. It would be a growth, and then there'd be a plateau, and then there'd be a decline on the other end of that. 

So, the answer to the question in terms of per capita innovation of the athenians around 450 bc. It reaches a peak of about four innovations per uh billion population around about that time. And we reach that again in about 1550. But, the implication would be that the victorians weren't as intelligent as the athenians.