---
layout:     post
title:      Which group evolutionary strategy to survive collapse
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - civilizational-declension
---

What do you believe is the most viable strategy for building a group designed to survive the eventual collapse of western society and then thrive in the aftermath?

I'm assuming it's what the amish are doing. The amish are probably going to be barely touched by this collapse of western civilization. They haven't embraced western civilization to any great extent. They all learn to drive in boom springer. 

I guess as things in Pennsylvania and Ohio and other places, with Kentucky and other places where the army should live, become incredibly violent, they might have to kind of become, because they're pacifists, the amish, they might have to kind of defend themselves and things, which would be interesting. But, so that would be one way to to survive the the collapse. 

It's not much a case of strategizing. It's a case of there being a large plurality of alternative evolutionary strategies already playing themselves out, such as mormonism, such as the group evolutionary strategies of amish people, for example. And ultimately, what you'll have is just a situation in which those strategies which are conducive to maximized fitness will persist, whereas those aren't, won't. And you'll simply see the gene frequencies.

I mean, one thing we do see is is a very, very pronounced secular trend towards people with, you know, socalled right views, right, having way more children than everybody else. And this is true even if you control for age and educational attainment and a whole bunch of other covariates. And what's more is the relationship has gotten more and more pronounced as a function of time. So in other words, more recently, it's gotten more severe. So what that tells you is that these models, these agentbased simulations, which look at the degree to which cooperation of an ethnocentric variety versus a sort of commensalistic variety, versus actively working against your group and that sort of thing, these models consistently show that more sort  in group oriented people under these simulated conditions, have more children and build more cohesive groups.

And what the data on the fertility patterns of people as a function of political orientation show is that those simulations are absolutely right. It is these more ethnocentric, sort of far right type people who are out breeding everybody else. Could you give a paper that shows that it's, it's literally political conservatism that predicts fertility.