---
layout:     post
title:      Irish IQ + Irish readmittance into UK
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - dysgenics
---

How to increase Ireland's average iq to 100 in an ethical way.

I think it's going to naturally happen anyway, because the the standard Greenwich point is british Iq. British Iq is going to be going down a british Iq started going down earlier than irish Iq. I suspect, because it industrialized earlier, Ireland is probably undergoing a, or has undergone, a massive flynn effect. So I wouldn't be a since it's, move industrialized, and now, particularly, I think about half population living Dublin these days, or something like that, something substantial. So it's going to have a big flynn effect in Ireland. And so what I suspect is it will reach 100 without really doing anything, because the british Iq will go down faster than the irish Iq goes down much faster. And so consequently, I suspect it will reach 100.

And this has already happened. I mean, if you look back at 20 years or so, the average, average irish Iq is estimated to be 92. Now it's just estimated to be 95. And if you look at how the young irish are doing on the on the pisa, they're doing, I think, better than the british. So I suspect that's how it'll how it'll transpire. So it'd probably be higher than the british. 

Although maybe they'll become british. Maybe, maybe this, Mary Lou Mcdonald, woman, who's the leader of Shin Fein, will get her wish, and they'll be a referendum on United Island, and Ireland will be united with Britain. I know of one politician who has seriously proposed that in the Uk, his prediction is when the European Union just utterly implodes, uh, the irish are going to basically suffer like you wouldn't imagine. And at that point, the British should offer them readmission to the United Kingdom. I think it's interesting. I think that there might be another border poll in Ireland in the next five years. You never had one in the 1970s. My suspicion is that it will go the same way as the last one. You'll probably get about 50 percent of people actually bothering to participate in it, because all the oldest unionists are going to boycott it. And, and and in order to push down the legitimacy and and those that vote in it, and probably vote overwhelmingly to stay part of the Uk. Because I think in five years, the eurozone is going to be in a hell of a lot of trouble.

So we should be quite stringent on this. I mean, if Ireland were to become properly under the crown again, they should be forced to paint all those post boxes they painted green red. 

I don't care what color their post boxes.

If you cross the border into the republic, as I have done a number of times, and suddenly the post boxes, our post boxes, have like, you know, G v on them.