---
layout:     post
title:      WM attraction for AF
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - life-history
 - neoteny
---

Is having an attraction for asian women strange to prefer outside your race?

East asians are more neotenous than white women. So it would follow that white men would find East Asians attractive. They are more k strategists, one assumes, and this is manifested in their physiogrammy, than white women. So if you are a k strategist, then it would make in certain circumstances, depending on the limitations of your own kind of women. And whatever it would make sense that if you have to choose between r strategists of your own race and the k racist of another, it might make sense to go for the k strategist, if that is what is available. For example, if you were a white man living in Hawaii, where there were a lot of japanese american people, or people of Japan, japanese American by ancestry. 

Thirdly, the genetic similarity of somebody is only one of many things that you are likely to take into account in being attracted to them. Yes, a person is generally similar to you, and you're going to be attracted for that reason. But also there are simply things such as neoteny, such as the kind of personality they have. If you're a k strategist and that person's okay strategist. And it should be remembered as well, there's considerable variance within races and whatever. 

And, research by Rushton indicated that people who are in mixedrace relationships seem to make up for it the effect the physical difference, by being in terms of the mind, which, remember, is 84 percent of the genome, very, very, very similar indeed. So that could potentially compensate for the physical dissimilarity. So there's all kinds of ways in which it would make sense, from an evolutionary perspective, for a european person, let's say, to want to have a relationship and have children with an east asian female. Although there are other ways in which, obviously, you're going to be probably more genetically different, on average, from her than some of your own race. And so you're passing on fear of your genes. And so this could be associated with a fast life history strategy, where you like taking risk.

It's bet hedging. So you want to increase the genetic diversity among your offspring in order to hedge against environmental unpredictability, right? So that's what would make it a fast life history thing. So there are all kinds of ways in which we can see that it is not strange for a white man to be attracted to asian women. There's all kinds of ways in which it could be adaptive. There's ways in which it could be maladaptive. Possibly it might involve passing on fewer of your genes on one measure. But on the other hand, if there's no other white people around, all of those white people are different from you psychologically or whatever, that it would make sense. So there are circumstances which would make sense. But the general rule would be that you'd go with someone of your own race, because, all else being equal, that's what would pass on in most of your genes.