---
layout:     post
title:      supernormal stimulation + antidepressants
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - degeneracy
---

Gary Wilson, your brain on pawn? I don't, I don't understand this book. 

That's a book, right? Yes. I've heard of the book by that name. Okay, so what he's saying the the pawn causes you to not be able to get it up. Yeah, i've heard this story, and I don't know if there's any substance to it. There is this idea of sort of super normal stimulation. So it could be, you know, i've heard one theory that that might be one pathway through which that particular suppressor works, to use a statistical jargon.

So in other words, it kind of desensitizes you to what would be normal range stimulation. So as a result, you kind of develop these weird, you know, uh, high expectations, which are never met in real life. So as a result, you, because you've become habituated to, you know, super normal stimulus, essentially artificial stimulus is kind of destroyed. It's an empirically open question. It's kind of in the same league as, do video games cause violence? You know, it's in a similar sort of league to that, and it's something that really needs investigating empirically. And there's some plausible ways in which it might be able to have an effect, I think. Again, I mean, there's many states. 

Antidepressants reduce iq, right? But on the other hand, can I just say, being interrupted for a second. So on the other hand, it couldn't it be that a person who is highly depressed is going to can't be asked, and they're highly stressed and they can't think straight, so that will reduce iq. So, so wouldn't antidepressants elevate iq?

No, no, no. Antidepressants, I think cause, I think the argument is that by monkeying around with your serotonin, serotonergic, dopaminergic and or epinephrine systems. Because, you know, some of these modern antidepressants are triple threats, essentially, they affect all three of those systems. By doing this, they may actually interfere with normal cognition. And insofar as there are actually correlations between certain candidate genes associated with brains, dopamine and serotonin, systems and iq. Kevin Beaver found evidence of this in the ad health correlations with these. It could be that, yes, if you start interfering with those chemicals, it might affect your, you know, balance of personality and intelligence. It's not actually something that's been very well studied.

I don't think I know anybody who has very high iq who's mentally stable. There's boundary gradient towers theory, isn't it? So, they've probably all taken antidepressants, So ssris might be very bad. Uh, tricyclic antidepressants, not so much. It really depends on the, you know, on the specific mode of action of the antidepressant. But it's something you should be looking at. That's the solution, right? With that as well, that we know is a religion health nexus. But then on the other hand, you're dealing with people that, to a certain degree, don't like talking about an area of life that's highly complex. And so perhaps that could reduce your iq. I don't know, but it wouldn't be on the g level. If there's negative correlation between religiousness and iq, then presumably that you're gon na be limiting the degree to which you're interacting with clever people. Um, so that would, if we follow Jim Flynn's, you know, does your family make you smarter? Uh, research, then going to church will presumably potentially reduce your iq, because you'll be, it will be not pushed to its phenotypic limit, because you'll be listening to silly sermons, where people get something quater d and connect it to the text and thus reveal something profound, which is not a high iq.