---
layout:     post
title:      White (Germanic) Masculinity
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - northern-european
 - bio-culture
 - british-ethnos
 - curt-doolittle
---


> Curt: I think one reason you are refreshing is that you are an example of older WASP masculinity. We are taught from a young age that to be masculine “cool”, assertive, that we must adopt the identity or manner of Irish or Italians (bravado) to be masculine white men. And most who are not WASPs implicitly support this, as it lowers our SMV relative to theirs, to have a large segment of their competition deemed stiff, uncool and out of style.

FILLING MARKET DEMAND

----------

And while the stoic METHOD – today’s cognitive behavioral therapy (training) – is superior to all others, the Epicurean objective is superior to all others. And this is in part why the anatolian, syrian, middle eastern fought so hard to destroy western heroism and it’s status competition by demonstrated action, sacrifice to earn the franchise, truth and duty to preserve the franchise: because all of these demands force us to obtain status through contribution to the commons (farmers and men ), rather than hyperconsumption of any available commons (shepherds and women), and emotional self indulgence.

[https://naturallawinstitute.com/religions-addiction-to-emotional-self-indulgence-3/](https://naturallawinstitute.com/religions-addiction-to-emotional-self-indulgence-3/)


--------------

In a universal military you get a trophy for doing your duty, meaning you get RESPECT for doing your duty.

This is what is different.
This is a huge difference.
Status is available to everyone.

You do not get a trophy unless you are fastest.
You get a ribbon for competing to be fast.
The original olympics – everyone ran.
The mob-races are part of this game.
We are not equal in ability.
We are not equal in potential.
We are not equal in achievement.
We are ONLY EQUAL IN FULFILLING OUR DUTY.

And if one does his duty he is due respect.
And if one does not do his duty he is due disrespect or punishment.

[https://naturallawinstitute.com/the-european-social-order-2/](https://naturallawinstitute.com/the-european-social-order-2/)

----------------------


Professional military aristocracy, a Militia of every able bodied man, creates full time military: All men in military earn respect and are given respect for doing their duty; all duty is necessary and valuable for the success of the group in a high risk venture; 

[https://naturallawinstitute.com/curt-doolittle-updated-his-status-398/](https://naturallawinstitute.com/curt-doolittle-updated-his-status-398/)
