---
layout:     post
title:      Great man view of history
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - group-selection
---

Does a Genius Group evolutionary strategy validate the great man view of history? This is the idea that history is, okay, yeah. Uh, the the mongols would probably be obscure if not for Genghis Khan.

Well, okay, well, I thought about it, and my my view is, yes, I think that the great man theory of history sort of derives inexorably from the fact that human populations under group selection tend to be highly pareto efficient, in that you have very small numbers of individuals doing a lot of heavy lifting, in terms of altruism, in terms of organizing, in terms of innovating, in terms of all these good things. So if you think about it, the great man theory of history, the fact that we have this as a model of history, is in and of itself a, uh, a possible artifact of our group selected past. 

But if we're really this diffusely anarchic, egalitarianoid sort of society that a lot of people think we are in our state, pristine state of nature, but why would we venerate the deeds of great scientists, of great warlords, of great architects, of great artists, of people who've made these massive and massive impacts on culture and and the success of groups in intergroup competition. 

It seems to me that the very existence of this model of history speaks to the fact we are highly group selected. And but we have a tendency to organize our culture around the achievements of these great people and to celebrate them, because those people go on to become paragons, or, if you like, mechanisms of inspiration from which subsequent generations can use as cues and guides for development and behavior. They can, they can serve as optima, essentially what individuals should be striving towards.

And don't forget, group selection is all about trying to restrict the variance in behavior to those manifestations of their of behavior, which are optimum for the good of the group. So under group selection, you have these very, very strong controls, not just on free riders, or people who want to sort of take advantage of the group and, you know, do their own thing and undermine it, in so doing, but also there are opt positive, optima of behavior which have to be promoted. And it could be that the, you know, the sort of veneration of these great men could be one of those mechanisms that's used to guide development in the context of federation.

There was the greek for the greek philosopher who argued that all of these gods and whatever that were worshiped by the Greeks, or indeed anybody else, were ultimately just real people, and their and their deeds had this, had this impact on the on the tribe, and they were remembered, and they were ultimately, gradually, it was assumed they couldn't possibly be human because they were so brilliant that they were turned into gods, that gods ultimately, in some way, are real people. That's where Legend.

You could call it the mythicization, and the need to generate myths about individuals is important, because myths inspire and they they, you know, they, they create uniformity of purpose. They're badges of ingroup identity. Because those people become inexorably entwined with the very cultural dna of the group. They become totems, essentially. And they're imbued of a certain power in terms of their ability to organize the thing that they they inspire the group, and therefore they make the group, more positively, negatively, ethnocentric in that way.

They have a form of immortality. They live on through the group and its deeds. The group does for heavy lifting in terms of their reproduction, even after death. And the group will often be descended from them as well. Ultimately, we english, we are all descended from even you, you say your a Scott, almost certainly the Edward the third for example. 

I can tell you exactly who I'm descended from. I got my 23andme results back. I'm a descendant of deal of the nine hostages, who's an irish King. I got 23 and me back. I didn't recall them saying that level of detail. They, they gave me, they gave me quite a lot of details about three million of us, but we're on a descent line.

All I found was I have zero forward ancestry, according to them, which I knew anyway. But, you and me both, but, but the, but with the neil of a nine hostages thing would be a good example of someone who was heavily group selected, who ended up leaving a very, very large number of descendants, of which I'm apparently one.

The whole point of paying for it is so you can be a certain percent victim. And and, sadly, I wasn't. Well, I was part. How Irish was I? I traced my own genealogy anyway, 25 years ago, and I have an irish great great grandmother. And that was, I'm a solid 25 percent irish.