---
layout:     post
title:      Our domesticates have shaped us
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - culture-gene-coevolution
---

Have you guys ever heard of selfdomestication?

We've domesticated ourselves, absolutely, yes. And what's more, as we are, we're under domestic, what you could call, broadly speaking, domestication, pressures from other species that constitute our portmanteau biota. So this is our sort of traveling Menagerie of taxa, which move around from place to place with us, including our domesticates and our varieties of plants and things that we have moved around the world, established in various places. So I say, yes, we we are under a kind of domestication. Is not a oneway street. Domestication involves multiple different selection pressures stemming from interactions among many different biota. Very complex interactions. So dogs, dogs have selected humans. If you look at, for example, human responses to certain traits and dogs, these have almost certainly been guided by selection insofar as the payoffs to being able to work with dogs are extremely high. So people who just didn't like dogs and couldn't work with them would not get any of the benefits of working with dogs. And as a consequence, there would clearly be a selection or a selection pressure, favoring cooperativeness between humans and dogs, which cuts both ways.

So, yes, we are shaped by those that reshape and vice versa. It's part of a big, complex ecological web. I suspect it's not evenly distributed among taxa. I think, for example, with plants, plants have played a huge role in shaping human, uh, human evolution, absolutely massive role. For example, look at lactose. Well, lactose persistence actually would be cows, you know, dairying and shaking human evolution. But also look in plants, look at gluten resistance and gluten allergies. Look at your celiac disease, these sort of things, which are related to exposure to certain plant toxins look at the look at allergies. Look at where where you have different levels of allergies and different populations. Look at the, you know, the transition away from, high protein to high carbohydrate diets. That's going to be influenced by agriculture and growing, you know, growing crops and rotating crops and things. Look at the evolutionary pressures favoring starch consumption, starch metabolism and high starch diet in the case of populations of monocultured potatoes.