---
layout:     post
title:      Monarchy vs Republic   group selectedness
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - politics
 - culture-gene-coevolution
---

Is monarchy or republicans and democracy better for genetic interest, for the group.

I think that monarchy is better because monarchy, at least the kind of monarchy we have in England is ultimately underpinned by, undergirded by, and only meaningful by virtue of religion. The only way you can possibly justify having an hereditary monarch is through religion, and through history, or or a kind of fetishization of history, which therefore brings in religious elements. And so therefore, the monarchy becomes a kind of fossilization, of an older form of doing things, a religious way of doing things. And it maintains a kind of religiosity at the heart of cultural life. And we know that religiosity is associated with ethnocentrism. And ethnocentrism promotes group selection. And so I would think, therefore that monarchy is a good thing in terms of group selection.

And also, group selection tends to favor the natural. It tends to favor that which is, I would suggest, which which is, you know, preindustrial natural normal things like when religiousness was still being selected for. As an example of this. And so we've all societies always had monarchies. A society was always one big genetic family, and that family had a head, and the head would be the monarch. So it maintains this tribalism. So I would say monarchy is the most group selected form of doing things because of the relationship with religion. 

Well, there's been at least one historical analysis, looking at basically the early 19th century to the year 2000. Bjornscof and coraled and Clitguard 2014. Who basically compared monarchies to republics. And what they found was that, basically, monarchies exhibit economic growth no slower than republics, and are actually better able to handle large reforms than republics. I would also add to the fact that democracies are far more likely to undergo financial crisis modes of government, including monarchy. And essentially, a lot of the sort of arguments against monarchy based on a very myopic historical focus, looking specifically for post world War II era. So there does seem to be a good deal of evidence that monarchies are as good as, if not better, at stabilizing countries, but more perennial as a form of governance than other forms of governance are which tend towards crisis, such as democracy.

The other thing to point out is monarchies consume a much smaller proportion of the overall GDP than do democracies, I believe. Hans Hermann Hoppy has a book on something like against democracy, in which he makes a comparison between the gdp consumed by the french government under Louisville 14th, versus the gdp consumer french government. He finds it sort of 70 of a gdp or something in contemporary France, versus five percent or something on under louis the 14th. And he argues that people actually had more economic liberty and generally literate large monarchies as a consequence. So there are actually a variety of very good reasons for favoring monarchy over democracy. 

So what was this paper? What was the author of favor Hoppy? This is Hans Hermann Hopper. He's a sort of notorious anarchocapitalist. Did he have any particular theories as to why it is that these monarchies are at least as successful, if not more so, than democracies? Well, he's a sort of an austrian school economist, and he believes that governments inevitably mutate into any form of democracy inevitably mutates into communism. So as a result, he argues that democratization is just a synonym for sort of socialistization, of a better term. And this means you get more consumption of gdp, stripping of liberties, Et cetera. 

More what he calls monadism, I believe, is the term. So you get more mathematics states, which wants chronic and synchronic associations among the citizenry, which makes them more intrusive and also more expensive to operate. So those that were in favor of absolute monarchy people like Metta Nick in the Congress of Vienna, those people were right. Those people had good instincts.

Monarchies are quite adaptive, and they're also quite liked as well. And they they leave persistent biocultural effects on their populations. A good example of this being the Habsburg effect, which you you see in liechtenstein today, and also in other parts of the former austrohungarian empire, where the, where the bureaucracies tend to be much more selflessly run and much more efficient than is the case in areas which were not, sort of on enthrall to the Habsburg empire. And one reason for this is possibly because the habsburgs actually bred civil servants who are altruistic. They set up a culture, gene coevolutionary pressure that actually favored an altruistic middle class, which you don't have in other countries. So that's one possibility for this effect.

And also, I suppose it is a good thing to have a country that's run by somebody who has been brought up from birth to to see themselves as God's representative, doing God's duty, who'll be punished by God for ballsing things up, as opposed to somebody who's just extremely ambitious, and has got there through through this intense ambition. So the monarch is always going to be a group selected individual with the good at the group, rather than the good of himself and his cronies at the heart of it.

Yes, this is a point Mencius Moldbaugh made in his writings if you can claw through these prolixative and really very difficult to read and actually really rather boring writings, his sort of neoreactionary foundational documents, one of the interesting points he makes is that democracies have to always be, the governing class of democracy always has to sort of justify its existence with reference to the Demoti Ie, the public in a democracy. So in other words, it's always, the republic is always being run for the good of the people. And whatever's done by the, by the president or by the head of a democracy is always something that is done for good of the people. And this is taken to an extreme under communism, of course, where where they were so confident to the leadership of a vanguard in in their understanding of what the people want, they don't even need to run the country with reference to the people. They, they, they just do it anyway. They don't need to consult people. They just, they just create the vanguard which which is democratic by its very nature. Essentially, it's always doing, whatever it does is always in the good of the people. And if people disagree, then they're counterrevolutionary and have to be purged.

Monarchies don't need to do that. They don't need to justify their existence in terms of the good of the people, because the monarch is there by virtue of divine will. He has a heaven from he or she has a heaven, a mandate from Heaven. And that's a completely different situation. It totally changes the relationship between the leadership and the people in a way which might might be better for group selection. In terms of how how the where the local or the focal point of authority lies. This is what moldbug calls formalism. Power is more formalized when those wielding power are no longer doing it with reference to ...