---
layout:     post
title:      Effect of communism on IQ
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - dysgenics
---

So the flynn effect will be lower. And then we have to take into account the fact that the famine in the 90s meant that the people, if basically, developed capitalism really during the famine, developed. And so consequently, the people that didn't have a skill they could sell tended to die. So consequently, I would think that it would have killed off people with very high iq. So, I would suspect that the Iq in North Korea must be lower than that in South Korea, though we we don't know. I mean, South Korea is about 104. How can we estimate it? 

I'll tell you how we can do it? Okay, we can get a good estimate of the iq. Basically what you do is you look at the height difference. So basically, height is a good proxy for the flynn effect. Because, like the flint effect, height is not sort of measurement invariant across all height components. It's mostly driven by increasing lengthening of leg bones, and not a lot else? So height, and I believe in high I believe that height in North Korea is about a standard deviation less, so that's about two or three inches. I think, lower than in South Korea. So you can assume that the phenotypic Iq is going to be somewhere in the region of 85 to 90, but the g is going to be identical, because they're the same people, essentially, ethnically, they're going to have the same genotypic iq.

Wait, no, what? As I said, I don't know if you on here when I said it, that they had a famine, didn't they, in North Korea. Yes, wouldn't that? Would you expect that that would reduce their phenotypic iq, their their sort of flynn effect, bits of their iq are going to be horribly underdeveloped. No, my point was that, I mean, this is only qualitative evidence, but from what i've read about it, what that did was it caused a complete collapse in the social system, rather like in the black death. And it meant that if you had a transferable skill, like the ability to cook, then you could, you could survive. You could, you but if you were a doctor or a lawyer, it was hard to make money, and you're more likely to die. So I'm wondering if that did reduce G.

Well, the interesting thing is, did have the conditions in North Korea actually selected for intelligence? I mean, you would expect the famine would kill the stupid. Generally speaking, communism is dysgenic. Okay, we have some good data on that. There's a paper by John Glad published many, many years ago, in which he, he did a crude simulation that he was able to show that the iq in the Soviet Union would have dropped by about three points or something under communism. Uh. Cambodia is another example. There've been a couple of researchers who sort of thought about the impact of Cambodia on Iq. The best data we have actually comes from cambodian students who were sent abroad to study as undergraduates in other indochinese universities. So you can actually match them ethnically to laotians and vietnamese, who are ethnically very similar people. And the iqs of these cambodian students were in the 70s, compared to their counterparts, their indochinese counterparts, whose iqs were in the region of 90, which is the norm for that region, essentially. So it does look like communism is generally dysgenic. 

However, there are exceptions, to every rule. One possible exception, as Balcoma vice pointed out, is East Germany, where apparently they actually incentivized the fertility of individuals who produced precocious youngsters. And the individuals who actually went to universities. And universities were very selective in East Germany and were quite sort of meritocratically selected. Were actively encouraged by the states to have high levels of fertility. So it looks like, it looks like the east german regime was actively practicing some kind of eugenics during its time. 

But the question is the north korean? I suspect that if north korean regime is following the pattern typical of communism, then this election is going to be largely indiscriminate, and it's going to possibly even be somewhat dysgenic, in so far if the regime penalizes, we will penalize upwards mobility, aspirational values and things like that. And being too intelligent may put you at risk of coming into conflict with the regime in some way, in terms of some point of ideology or what have you. So I suspect dysgenic, unless they have some internal eugenics program going on there that we don't know about. Of course, we don't really know what's going on in North Korea, so we don't know what they're doing and what they're practicing. It would be very interesting to see, actually, once, once that, once that state essentially becomes more open, which I suspect it will do in the becoming a decade.