---
layout:     post
title:      Which European peoples will do the best going forward
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - civilizational-declension
---

Of the world's populations of european descended peoples, which do you think will do the best in the next hundred years? And why?

I think the eastern europeans, because they are less dysgenic. Um, and they are, they are less multicultural. Um, so I think they'll do all right. And the Russians, perhaps for that reason as well. And also South Americans in places like Brazil, possibly.

What do you think, which european people to do best next hundred years? I think those in the east definitely will be here for a long time. Having to deal with the caliphate on to the north, to the north and to their west, there will be a caliphate, and they will be fighting that. 

I think they'll probably be a mass immigration of europeans, of western europeans, into the east. I suspect that's the kind that might happen as well. In the same way, it's very interesting that when the Normans invaded England, there was a mass emigration of the english nobility to the Ukraine. So the guy that was the heir to King harold the saxon heir to king harold and his court. They all fled to where they had contacts. For reasons I'm not sure they had contacted hungary. I think maybe did Harold marry a Hungarian, there was some kind of contact there. And somehow, I don't know the details, they ended up in the ukraine. And  was it the byzantine emperor or somebody? And he gave them lands in the ukraine, and they set up these english villages with english sounding names, and in the ukraine, in sebastopol, around there.