---
layout:     post
title:      Climate change is variations in solar output
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - science
 - group-selection
---

So basically, my position on climate change is the climate is always changing. So to simply say there's climate change is like saying, by God, there's oxygen.

Climate change is a sort of nonsequitur it doesn't really mean anything, because the climate is always changing. So essentially, the the position I take on it is that, really, what is causing it? And the data seem to show that there is a nonzero effect of human anthropogenic emissions. So this would be gases like, uh, co2 and of course, methane, which is a byproduct of dairying. Methane is a much more potent greenhouse gas, but it has a much, much lower environmental halflife. The the issue is, is it the only cause of climate change? No, it's not, because the huge portion of variation in climate is actually due to variations in solar output.

And is it the main cause of climate change? And this is obviously very controversial, but my position is, no, it's not. My position is it's a sort of coequal contributor along with these other solar type mechanisms, and the other thing is, you know, a position I am quite I will take a strong position on, is that these claims that have been made by Michael Mann and others about modern environments being far warmer than at any point in the last thousand years is complete nonsense.

Those data are, in my opinion, not to be trusted. This is, my opinion, is that those's data hooky. And if you actually look at real climatological reconstructions using multiple converging lines of like, ice core thicknesses, ratio of oxygen isotopes, tree ring thicknesses, that sort of thing, you take all of these, you know, all these different converging lines of evidence, and you plot, you plot back in time, you can actually see periods in, in relatively recent history, the socalled medieval warm period, with the average temperature, particularly during the time of the roman occupation, was so high in the north of Europe, that you could actually grow, you could have viniculture, you could grow wine, or own a culture, or whatever it's called. You could grow, you know, vineyards and grow wine.

How that's been forgotten, that you get vineyard streets in various medieval times, because it was a lot warmer during this early medieval period.

And then it got a lot colder during the socalled little ice age. Little ice age corresponds with the more the minimum, which is a period of reduced sunspot activity. And as soon as the minimum came to an end, the little ice age came to an end, and we started to pull out of it and went into this period.

So then path part of the decline of Rome is going to be to do with weakening selection because of this. Climate change is very, very important, and I make it absolutely central to my own models of how recent human evolution has occurred. Because what climate is doing both the level of temperature within the environment. So you know how the mean temperature and also the variance in temperature, the number of very warm and very cold days that you have for a given period of time. What you're looking at there is a major driver of selection for traits like intelligence and also life history, because of the way that temperature affects both the scarcity and also the predictability of resources. And the impact that this has, this ecological stability has on traits, in terms of the traits that are favored under these regimes of different degrees of ecological harshness.

And predictability, and you have different levels of group selection in response to this. There's a very good paper by the Zang group which was published in uh, actually two of them published in uh, proceedings of the National Academy of sciences, in which they show that you can use variations in the levels of temperature, to actually predict the levels of violence and intergroup conflict among european populations. And yes, when temperatures started to drop and you entered into this minimum period, this little ice age, you had this explosion of violence in Europe, where you had things like the 30 years war, and you had this thing called the general crisis of the 17th century. And this was all driven by cold and by famine and by the desire for more northerly groups to expand into more southerly and more clement environments, to basically take those resources to make up for the resources that they they had lost due to the imposition of the climate. So group selection is a response to coal.

And group selection is what stimulates selection for high iq or high g when you have absence of climate, and you have a climate that's changing in a warming direction, which has been happening over the last 200 years, in part due to the industrial revolution and in part due to the end of a little ice age, you have a situation which the opposite is going to happen. You will have a mild environment, you won't need group selection, and therefore you have dysgenic selection patterns arising as a consequence of that.