---
layout:     post
title:      Is national character genetic
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genetic-determinism
---

Is national character real? And to what extent is it genetic? 

We looked at evidence of a certain polymorphism, certain forms of a gene, and their prevalence in different populations. And these polymorphisms are associated with different kinds of personalities, different levels of extroversion, for example. And it's quite clear that there are national differences in the, in the uh, percentage of populations that carry genes which are associated with very high extroversion, and in the other other traits as well.Traits which relate, for example, to testosterone, or androgens, male hormones. And these these traits are tend to be associated with a certain personality of low impulse control and of aggressiveness and, and basically sort of drive. 

It's certainly true that it's difficult to measure in the same way that we would iq or whatever, national differences in personality, because the problem is that when people make, when you're you're given a statement on a personality test such as, I lose my temper, easily rank it from one to five. And the problem with that is that you're comparing yourself to people within your own society and people that you know. And so when these things have been compared internationally, you end up with ludicrous situations such as that, I know the Japanese have lower conscientiousness than the nigerians, for example, which everybody would know is instinctively nonsense. 

But it can be measured by these kinds of these these genetic data and perhaps certain properties. Schizophrenia rate, for example, in a society, this is very high in Northeast Asia and Finland. And this would be consistent with some low testosterone, really, in these countries. Because Schizophrenia is associated with with the with low measures of low testosterone, with low testosterone.