---
layout:     post
title:      ADHD stimulants
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - iq
---

ADHD and the use of stimulants on people that have adhd, there was a study in Taiwan, as I recall, and it found that, uh, yup, that there is a positive. It does elevate Iq. If it stops these people going bonkers and and whatever, not being able to concentrate. It helps them to concentrate. I mean, we're talking about specific medicine, specific stimulantbased medicines here, longterm mpha treatment. Improves neurocognitive profiles of adhd children are seen in their performance. I've got the abstract, yes, on several subtests of the Iq scores of the wisc Iii, and so, that would that seems to improve their, their full iq. Then there was another number of studies on this, actually, that have looked at these various um drugs that are given to people with adhd, stimulants, and it does improve their iq. Um, you know, it does. So if the performance iq is better.

So the suspicion is the effect is not on G.

Well, no, it's not on G. I do from what they were saying of the subtest, not on G. The question was iq not not g um? And it does improve their intelligence. Now, I mean, of course, I presume, you know, some stimulants are obviously going to be toxic, um, and so that's going to damage the brain, uh, and presumably reduce Iq.

Amphetamine use the long run is going to cause severe iatrogenic brain damage. So amphetamines may boost, creativity and cognitive ability in the short term, but yes, over the long term, they will turn your brain to jelly. 

So, what about opium?

Opium is just, all opioidcontaining substances um have horrible and severe side effects, including chronic constipation. You know, opiates used to treat, or opioid, very strong opioids, including Lord, and still used today to treat like a terminal diarrhea. And yes, that's actually a thing. Henry the fifth died of Diarrhea. Yeah. You people, there are people who have like terminal diarrhea. Henry V died of Diarrhea. And I believe I'm right in saying, um, was it King John who died? He was given some peaches, and of course, they've been imported from somewhere, or rather, and they were rotten, and it, and it gave him diary, and that's why he, he died of dysentery as well. Yeah, probably, which would have been carried by the peaches. I don't know if an opioid is going to make you higher. Iq, it'll make you high, though. 

It'll make you high, yeah, but it'll make you, let's go fly a kite up to the highest height. But, yes, it's, uh, reference to Mary poppins there, the original, not the remake, obviously. So, yes. So that's the answer to that. So it depends on what the stimulant is. Certain controlled stimulants prescribed by a psychiatrist or somebody with adhd will improve performance.