---
layout:     post
title:      Blow back from talking about race
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - cancel-culture
---

Well, I when I talk about race in Brazil, everybody want to kill me. Why in mixedrace places this happens? Even with whites, this reaction took place? Why do you think that everyone wants to kill vincenius when he talks about race in Brazil? Because it rocks the boat. 

I don't know who this person is.

He's the brazilian person to ask us a question. He says, when whenever he talks about race in Brazil, everyone wants to kill him. And he asks, why in mixed race places does this happen? Even with whites, this reaction took place. 

I thought you were talking about a politician or someone in Brazil. And I was thinking, who could this be? Um, the issue of that's a very unfortunate situation to find yourself in. I i know people from the south of Brazil who work, who have worked with me on, not particularly politically correct projects, who don't seem to have any trouble. But maybe that's because they come from the south of Brazil, and that's more sort of developed, I guess. The the issue, yeah, it's just more broadly, sort of developed and more homogeneous, you know, ethnically more portuguese or whatever. I think it's not just a case of having a, you know, multiracial sort of environment that makes talk of this sort of thing problematic, I think you have to add another thing to it. And that's, and that's basically, the ideology of resentment. You know, the idea that these, these nonwhite groups are this privilege, this possessed action of whites, right? And then you stir up resentment, and you create negative ethnocentrism, and you create negative behavior patterns as a result. So it could be because of, I don't know, rogue academics, you know, telling all these nonwhite individuals that all of their problems are due to portuguese settlers, or something, and that that's what's really causing the trouble, that I'd suspect there's some, there's some identity politics behind that. 

He was saying, it's even among the whites that it's a problem. So presumably that would be down to just white ideologues spiteful mutant types, inculcatingly. 

Now, yeah, yeah, I think you're right. It'd be highly developed, the highly developed brazilians. And so they convert your signal and whatever. And then other people get indoctrinated with these views, and they're perhaps slightly mentally unstable and insecure, and if you question and they get very upset. And that's always been the case. And when it, when it was 70 years ago, people questioning sexual ethics, you'd get some people that would get terribly upset, because they just, they invest their identity, and they invest their sense of selfworth in being part of this, this model, and then being important in it, and in sticking to it. If you undermine it, then, of course, this creates cognitive dissonance, which, if you're a sort of insecure type that like structure, that can be very difficult to cope with.