---
layout:     post
title:      The Imperial Accent
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - new-world-order
---

They've been discussing british accents on. And I'd like to emphasize that, yes, I would agree. There's no such thing. Well, then you could argue those things with American Accent. But, yes, our accent is an english accent. It's a southern english accent.

I'd disagree with your characterization. I'd call our accent the imperial accent, because this is the accent that the upper classes in the United Kingdom historically spoke, all of them, irrespective of where they were from, including, yes, Scotland. If you meet scottish aristocrats? They don't go, oh, hi laddie.

In my experience, is that they tend to speak in this kind of way. So that is a scottishness to their poshness. I see what you mean, so there's a very slight scottish burr to the accent. Yes, I have encountered that, but, the ones i've encountered tend to speak pure RP. Maybe the Highland aristocracy. But the point I'm making is that Bbc originally, when it was meant to be the sort of focal point of british culture and the sort of exemplar of what british culture was in terms of art and science and learning, etc. This rp, or receipt pronunciation, was the standard accent, essentially, that individuals are encouraged to speak. 

And this is an imperial dialect. This is something that is designed to create unity among different people who would otherwise tend to fractionate along linguistic lines. And of course, prior to linguistic pseudospeciation, you have dialectal pseudo speciation. So dialects precede the origin of new languages. And this is, this is the accent, this is the sort of unity accent, essentially, of the United Kingdom. That's one of, the one of the things that appeals to me about it is that this is intensely annoying for people who should ordinarily speak as as we do, but refuse to, because they'd much rather affect a mockney accent, and speak that way. And it's always fun to call those people out.

You see now they've gone down an octave. So it's gone down here, and now on Bbc one, uh, let's indoctrinate you. You know, it's, down here in the throat. It's very irritating, and they've done it for costly signaling reasons. They do it to try and signal their with-it-ness. In southern English, of course, we would say barth like that. And they've dropped, they've turned that into bath, people who are clearly southerners, and basically speaking a form of modern day rp, the new Rp. And they have this northern pronunciation of words like. 

I you ever met real cockneys? And they're an extreme minority now in London, very, very rare. You haven't met these people? They absolutely hate the mockney accent. They hate the russell brand sort of accent. That sort of, lairey accent.

They say things that a Bbc person would never say. They think, they say things like, oh, he's gone off. Yes, the genuine cockneys who for whom that is their actual dialect, this esporine vowel dialect, they can't stand it. And I don't blame them. I really don't blame them. I think it's terrible. I like regional diversity of accents.

The parallel between the lower class and  upper class people between off and off. Come, like a conduit instead of conduit. And there's a very interesting book on this by Mchenry called blasphemy. And something other about English, about the middle class and the rise of the middle class, and how the middle class created themselves and distinguished themselves from the working class in the upper class through our morality, the stress on morality, the stress on religiousness. And then with with the language, you get this fascinating thing whereby, normally, according to Mary Douglas's purity rule, the further you are from the center of power, the less important it is to be pure. That's her theory, right? So people like the darlect or whatever. They're far from center of power, so they can eat snakes and whatever. And then people at the brahmin they're highly controlled, and they have to be vegetarian and all this.

But it's actually more complicated than that, because in a lot of levels, it is the middle class who are the most pure, because they're insecure about who they are. They don't want to be seen as working class, and they want to imitate the upper class. But they see themselves as better than them in some way, because they're more moral, or whatever, more leftwing. And so you end up with a situation where the people that swear the least, it's this kind of hyper correction, is the middle class, then the upper class, then the working class. So I found at university it would be people from up the upper class that were more likely to swear, for example. And it was the the more middle class, the kind of people whose parents hadn't been to university, those people. And they would be the ones that would be the least likely to swear.