---
layout:     post
title:      Explain epigenetics and epigenetic inheritance
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - culture-gene-coevolution
 - science
---

Well, epigenetics is basically just the study of the factors that, uh, control the regulation and patterns of gene expression in an organism. So essentially, the, uh, you have genes are switched on and off by different biochemical substances, like hormones, for example, which penetrate into the cell nucleus and actually bind dna and, directly inhibit patterns of gene expression. methylation is one you've probably heard of. These are little markers which, when added to codons, basically tell the proteins not to code, sorry, tell the, uh, the genome not to code proteins using that codon. So you can, you can switch a gene on and off by methylating and demethylating it. And those markers are epigenetic markers.

Another example would be histone. Histone looping in chromosomes and chromatin. So these various structural elements of chromosomes can change epigenetically in a way that changes the way that the genome is read. So that's really all there is to epigenetics is conventionally understood.

I would describe, also cultural systems as being epigenetic insofar as cultural, information can actually affect the pattern of gene expression within individuals. This is the basis of the social epistasis amplification model. These, you know, the the genotype of the source of the society, the social genome, effects or moderates patterns of gene expression through the way in which the social genome constructs the culture around it, and the way in which the culture functions as what's called, the culture functions to provide what we call epigenetic rules of development, which uh regulate by phenotypic plasticity, the uh, developmental trajectories, or differential canalization of various phenotypes. So epigenetics is really just any system which is capable of affecting the way in which genes express, and which is independent of the genes. 

And this also segues into something which I suspect is a little bit closer to the question that was being asked about, epigenetic inheritance systems. So epigenetic inheritance systems would be any nongenetic factor which contributes, or cocontributes, to patterns of gene expression over the course of generations. So in other words, these would be these epigenetic biochemical markers that might persist across generations of plant or animal, and might affect the way in which genes are expressed in the offspring in a somewhat lamarcian fashion, Ie, via the inheritance of acquired characteristics. So this is essentially the, uh, this is the idea of epigenetic inheritance.

And as far as genetic, oh, sorry, molecular epigenetic inheritance is concerned, this is a very controversial topic. There's no really solid evidence, in animals at least, that, epigenetic inheritance is a major factor, or parallel factor to genetic inheritance. And nor is it clear what sort of role it may play in evolution. In plants, however, it's a different story. There seems to, there seems to be considerable evidence of various genetic markers which can actually be passed on from generation to generation. It can affect the heredity of plants in the sort of soft nondarwinian way across generations. So I hope that answers your question.