---
layout:     post
title:      Rapid collapse
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - civilizational-declension
---

Medieval folk benefited, uh, greatly from Rome, even after its fall, using their aqueducts, sewers, language, etc, for centuries. To what extent might our descendants do this? Could this slow g return?

If civilization were to collapse, what you'd be looking at would be a very, very rapid phase transition between a state in which you had very low mortality to one in which you had very high and very highly random mortality. I don't think it would be this sort of gentle decline. I think that once the sort of core goes, I think you're just looking at at a complete fall. And it would happen in a very, very short period of time. The civilization, civilization takes a long time to build, but like all low Entropy systems, it's something that would probably fall apart very, very rapidly.

It's easier to, if you think about thermodynamic processes, increase the order in a system is very easy. You can do it with you can do it in a very, very short period of time. Think of a bomb going off, right? One moment it's a bomb, the next it's energy and matter flying everywhere. But to build that up again, to take all those bits and put them back together the way they were before the explosion, that would take a long, long time. It's possible at all. So so with any kind of high, highly complex system, its breakdown will be extremely precipitous. And I think that that's what we're looking at here. And I think that'll mean a very rapid transition into a regime of extremely harsh and unpredictable selection of various sorts, pulling in various directions. Whether it would start to favor an increase in cognitive ability again or not is conjectural. It really depends on a number of factors.

It took a long time for us to, as it were, recomprehend what we'd lost in terms of greek civilization and roman civilization. I mean, there was basically a very quick collapse in the western empire, and then a thousand years of darkness