---
layout:     post
title:      Flynn effect driven by slow life history
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - life-history
 - flynn-effect
---

I there's evidence that Yan did research that the iq of the afrikaners was quite a bit lower than that of the europeans, um of the of the English, of the British in Africa. And then quite recently, the afrikaner Iq, there's been a big flynn effect on the afrikaner iq, and it's gone right up, and it's, it's now got parity with the englishspeaking South africans.

So, his theory was that most of the afrikaners were living on farms and whatever, and so they weren't particularly advanced, whatever. You know, they weren't particularly educated, educated. I don't know, because, of course, a lot of Stem Boston, whatever. I mean, there's big Africana higher education infrastructure in Africa. So I didn't know quite why it would be, but it was a big difference, about five points and then. And now it's closed.

And similarly, the korean Iq um, that's gone up by seven points a decade. It's huge. I'd like to know about why the afrikaner Iq skyrocketed um. When peach Nick and varashek put out their paper on national differences in the rate of the flynn effect, one of the things predicted was that, was that one of the reasons you get this pattern of very large flynn effects in East Asia, sort of middlesized ones in Europe and relatively small ones in Africa, is because the flynn effect is driven by differences in life history speed. So longitudinally, life history speed has been slowing for both genetic and epigenetic reasons. There's been selection pressures favoring slower life history. And we've also been environments which are conducive to the canalization of slower life history as a function of decreasing extrinsic morbidity and mortality.

So you've had a sort of double dose, essentially, of both selection factors favoring slow life history. And one of the things slow life history individuals are capable of doing is engaging in cognitive specialization. This is a form of character displacement. It's a form of competitive release behavior as well. If you're living in a crowded environment and you become a specialist in this cognitive domain or that cognitive domain, you can accommodate more people in a smaller area, so you can have higher population densities, and the carrying capacity can go up through division of labor. So essentially, the flin effect looks a bit like that process. It's not a gain in g, but then again, it doesn't have to be a gain in g, because g and K are not actually correlated with each other. Moreover, g is selected in such a way that it's going down, whereas K is selected in contemporary populations in such a way that it's going up. So the selection pressures are completely orthogonal, operating on these two distinct sources of psychometric variants. So therefore, if you have large  flynn effects in East Asia, that is probably a reflection of the underlying slow life history of east asians relative to other groups.