---
layout:     post
title:      Genetic differences between Europeans
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genetic-determinism
 - bio-culture
---

Are there genetic differences between different european nations? I know there are with slavs, southerners, etcetera. But are they important differences in English and french? 

But if you look at the research by frank salter in his very good book, which I can't recommend nuts on genetic interest, he does demonstrate that there is a degree to which the different ethnicities of Europe do divide into, um, genetic clusters. They are, of course, genetic differences. And there are genetic differences in various subtle ways, of course, those pronouns, such differences between races. But these genetic differences do exist. They are very real. 

As I understand it, people in southern Europe, let's say southern european women, go through the menopause a bit earlier than northern european women. And that is a genetic difference. And it continues even among people of different european descents in the Usa. So it's a genetic difference because people from southern Europe are slightly faster life history. Strategists on that measure anyway than people from northern Europe are. There are other illnesses. I think diabetes is one that the the more common among different part different areas of Europe. So so again, a prostate cancer, I think, is another. So so there clearly are genetic differences. And in those genetic differences relate to survival. 

There are certain outliers as well in terms of Europe. Finland is an outlier. The basques are outlier genetically. The the sardinians are an outlier genetically. And so, you're going to expect them to have unique illness, or disease profiles, the finns do. There's certain very high in schizophrenia, for example, related to other countries, and it seems to be that's a partly genetic thing. They're very high in diabetes related to surrounding countries. Again, genetic thing. So so yes, there are significant and important differences, but they become more important and more significant when we talk about outlier populations like finns or the baskets or the sardinians.

Differences with English and french, celts and germanics. Yes, there are. One of the differences between the English and french is obviously the suicide rate. The suicide rate is massively higher in France. They, they are, the stereotype is true. I mean, they do like sitting outside their cafes talking about philosophy, and it's a very dark, nihilistic kind of, kind of John Paul Sartre or whatever, kind of philosophy. And they, and and they, they seem to have higher neuroticism than the English. And it may be one reason, Richard Lynn speculated on this in a book in about 1971, on personality, that they are thinner than the English. They tend to be thin because they're still on edge and anxious all the time. They don't want to eat. And of course, they smoke heavily, which is an appetite present. So, I think there are between the English and the french and, and you you also know.

Differences between the celts and the Germanics? Well, the celts definitely, and lynn notes this, um, the celts and the germanics? Um, yeah, obviously. I mean, the, the the celts are fun, happy, jolly people, and the germanics are not so so, yeah. So I think that there are important differences. And also, I think you'd get differences with between regions of England.