---
layout:     post
title:      Fulcrum problem
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - evolution
---

Can you expand on the idea that gene editing won't work because of the fulcrum problem, archimedes leather?

This is based on the idea, but really, we're very conceited if we think we can actually control the selection, because the very act of trying to control the selection will set up unexpected selection pressures, which will act on your population in peculiar ways. It's a really good example of some practice is welfare states. We think what we're trying to do with welfare states is we're trying to stop selection from acting on populations. And the way we're doing that is we're taking people who would historically have been vulnerable to selection, by virtue of certain traits, and we're trying to take away from them that vulnerability by giving them the resources that they wouldn't have had under a more under less sort of beginning system. But what we've done though, is we've set up an entirely new selection pressure, one which now favors, high levels of fertility among the recipients of welfare, and simultaneously favors lower levels of fertility among those who have to subsidize whatever.

So all we've done there, by trying to neutralize selection pressures, is we've leaned on that lever, archimedes lever, and the position of the fulcrum has now changed. And instead of getting the result we wanted, we've now found we can no longer affect as big a change, or or even now the change is going in the other direction. We find ourselves being lifted up with the lever as the fulcrum moves closer to us. And and the very thing we're trying to prevent is now coming back with the vengeance. So this is what I meant by the uh the fulcrum analogy. The location of that fulcrum can change. The positioning of that fulcrum. Is your selection pressure. And the very act of trying to change things can alter the position of that fulcrum. It can lead to unexpected consequences, such as massive amounts of dysgenic fertility resulting from melioristic social policies designed to protect socially vulnerable people

But the problem is, what if we are now talking about a free market in genetic upgrades, where people can just go to the market and buy from the market whatever it is they can do, um, you know, whatever it is they they could they want for their children. They want a little bit more extroversion. They want to, they want a kid with six fingers instead of five or something. They want a kid with an iq of 200. They want a kid who's going to be an artist, etc. And you can go to the market and buy these things. What do you think that's going to do to the pattern of selection pressures and population? It's going to diversify them to the point where you will have no control over them whatsoever. And it may lead to runaway artificial selection, which could be very destructive if left unchecked.