---
layout:     post
title:      Do egalitarians really believe what they say
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - politics
---

How much do you think the elites know about differential psychology and genetic determinism? Could some be based, based, but hide it for powers ages? I believe we have good evidence that Richard Nixon knew. Richard Nixon was told of this research.

Yes, yes, he was aware, apparently, of Jensen's work. Uh, actually, Pat Buchanan apparently made him aware of Jensen's research. So the answer is that they do know. Um, I suspect, I have good reason to suspect, that Boris Johnson knows. I like him, so I don't get into trouble, but i've got a reason to think so Boris Johnson knows. And Johnson does know? Yes, he does. And so so absolutely, yeah, he knows, because I know, I'm familiar with certain magazines, that he's real. They do know.

And the question is, are they prepared to? Of course not. In the current climate. It would be political suicide to go to public with this, this kind of information. It's very, very difficult. So it's very difficult for them because they, they must know sometimes that they are pursuing policies with with labour people. I often know a lot of them, if they they know it, but they can't bear it. And so they managed to kind of create this fantasy world. And that's why they become so angry when they're questioned about it, because of cognitive dissonance?

No, I i don't, I don't think so. I think, I think these people actually believe that the labor people, the people on the left, the hard left, I think they really do believe the environmentalist stuff. It's a religion for them. But they must, on some level.

I mean, if it's a religion for you and it's questionable, such as people who don't believe in evolution or whatever, you must on some level know that this you must have some doubts, and employ psychological mechanisms to suppress those doubts?

Quite possibly. But I i think, I think at a very fundamental level, they, they don't accept this stuff. They really do see it. As you see, there is a a very good essay on this was actually written by the wineguards, you know, Bo Weingarten and his brother, they wrote an essay, which was published a couple of years ago in a volume edited by Lee Justin entitled paranoid milieuristic Egalitarian. And they describe this sort of style of thinking associated with extreme leftwing beliefs and ideations, which they call paranoid.

And it's based on the idea that any evidence you bring uh to bear on the question of inequality which does not produce a an outcome, that that is suggestive of the the initial source of inequality being ultimately sort of something you can ameliorate, is evidence that the people behind this are evil, right? So, hence the paranoia. So the idea is they're actually paranoid about about people who believe that inequality can't be eliminated, because they think those people are causing the inequality. 

That's the impression I got reading Angela Sandy's book, superior, that there is this paranoia, and that's also evident in the way she behaves on twitter and things like that. There is this paranoia that that, that's not a statement i'd expect to be made by a respected biologist. Ie this is reich who said that, yeah, there might well be race differences in intelligence or whatever that are genetic.  And, and it's just this, it's this world of of everything's reduceable to power. These people who believe in these things. They have power, and they're, they're bad people, and these things just can't be right.

She said, actually, there's a quote somewhere, I quoted it that you can always find, statistics to prove basically racist ideas. But what you should do is, you should overcome that and realize that that that there's more important things, you know, basically she's saying, there's more important things than the truth. You can always find the truth. It was quite amazing.