---
layout:     post
title:      Fertility rates
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - multi-racialism
---

Have you seen that ethnic immigrants? Does that mean nonwhite immigrants to the west can not get laid? Um, it looks like replacement won't happen because the immigrants are insufficiently sexy.

That's not consistent with the date, with the data. They have a considerably higher fertility than europeans. So in denmark, for example, the average fertility of a dane is 1.7 children, and the average fertility of the somali is five. In Finland, the average fertility of a finn was, I think, 1.8, average fertility of the somali was four. So, they having considerably more children? So I don't think you're that's consistent with what you call replacement not happening. 

The issue really is the degree to which these populations are sort of going to go through a demographic transition, and the degree to which this process will attenuate their fertility. Will it attenuate the fertility of these newly arrived immigrants to the point at which they have the same fertility as the indigenous people of the countries that they inhabit. The answer is, probably not. Because of the natural rates seem to differ from group to group, probably for genetic reasons.

However, will be a very high fertility that these immigrants experience, often early on, in the process of relocating from one country to another, persist? The answer is, we know for a fact that it won't. Because basically, the data on hispanics, in particular in the states, I think, from the pew hispanic center, it's quite clear that their fertility rates are actually dropping quite precipitously. And as a consequence, they are experiencing a demographic transition, which makes sense, because they're exposed to the same sort of things that have triggered the demographic transition here in the west, simply by virtue of being in the west. A lot of people say, there's no magic dirt. Well, there might be a magic social genome which can, which can cause low, chronically low fertility in anything that comes into contact with it. And, it's possible many of the things which are causing chronically low fertility, even depressed sperm counts in western populations, which would include mutations, be starting to have an effect on these other populations. There seems to be...

There seems to be a kind of lag. So if you think that the industrial revolution starts off in sort of 1800, it takes till 1900 for the fertility Iq correlation, as I understand it or not, the wealth Iq combination rather, to, uh, sorry, the wealth facility correlation, to become zero. I was corresponding with Greg Clark, and he was telling me, in 1900, that's for will analysis, that's when it becomes nil. And, and then, of course, it goes and it goes negative. And by that time, so around about that, you've got families, people born then who have large families, working class people who will have six kids or whatever. And so there's a lag. And then it's the generation art, but at that time, the middle class families, you know, two or three. So there's a lag. And so they, they, they seem to experience that lag. And then it reduces. We have this with the hindus in the Uk. Their fertility is only slightly higher now than that of the of the English, of the british, and it's decreased. So, yeah, this is true. But it is higher. I mean, it.

And one one of the factors presumably elevates it is religiousness. And it may be that because they've been although there is this, there is this cultural this reaction. It may be because they've been subject to darwinian selection for less time, perhaps, or because maybe even they've been more selected to be religious, which is possible as a way of dealing with an unstable ecology and creating a civilization. Perhaps they're sort of congenitally more religious and therefore more likely to have children for longer and longer. But they will become more dysgenic, it seems pretty clear. And then they right?