---
layout:     post
title:      IQ overpredicts East Asian creative achievement
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genius
---

Iq overpredicts asian creative achievement. 

Creative achievement is not simply a function of doing genuinely original, interesting stuff. Is not simply a function of being clever. The genius, as it were, has to have a certain kind of personality. That personality is moderately low in certain sort of aspects of conscientiousness and of agreeableness. Almost sub psychopathic. Indeed. This is what Dr post, I forget his christian name, argues in one article, that they're subclinically psychopathic, these, these genius types, these creative types. Let's say they're moderately antisocial in certain ways. They're definitely so combined with outlier High Iq.

Now, of course, the problem there is that the, although the east asians have higher iq than than we do, it may be the case that they don't have as many people with Outlier higher Iq. You'd expect that based on the fact that gene pool is quite small anyway. And certainly they are much higher in um, gfp, what, I don't know, but in conscientiousness and agreeableness than europeans. And so they're going to produce fewer of these geniuses. They're going to produce fewer of these outlier, brilliant people who who rock the boat.

Part of genius is that you are low in impulse control, so you can, you can sort of think outside the box, that you are alone aspects of agreeableness, so you don't care if you offend people. But among the East asians, levels of social anxiety are extremely high, so high, in fact, that they, as we've discussed in other chats, according to hereto Fernandez's metaanalysis, they score lower in neuroticism than other races, on every component except social anxiety, where they score much higher, so much higher that they come across as having the highest neuroticism score of the three main races. So that is the reason. So that, although they are highly intelligent, they don't produce genius. And they are too sort of socially conformist to come up with these original things. 

The most interesting one was lead authored by my colleague, Kenyakura, who is, who is japanese. And he's called something like, why don't east asians when northeast asians win Nobel prizes, or something like that. Even there's certain sort of, um, polymorphisms that are associated with being sort of curious and open to new things. And East asians, have the lowest percentage of the population that carry the form that predicts this.