---
layout:     post
title:      deciduous forests cause k selection
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - life-history
---

Tobacco smokers had lowest rates of cardiovascular disease, hypertension, diabetes, neoplasm and strongest no illness category.

So tobacco is interesting. The highest smoking rates per capita, or pygmies. This gives us very valuable insights into the evolution of tobacco smoking, because tobacco smoking seems to have been a mechanism for controlling parasite load. If you look at nicotine, or nicotinoids, which are the class of plant toxins which are basically the active ingredient in tobacco, plants of all nicotinoids as a way of avoiding herbivory. So insects which would nibble on tobacco leaves died. Nicotine oils are extremely toxic to insects, and they're extremely toxic to all forms of helmets as well.

So one of the things plants plant leaves. It's interesting. We wrote a paper called plants parasites from people many years ago. And we were looking at the uh. We're looking at the sort of part of a selective sequelae as low light history traits in um more northern and easterly populations. And one of the things we found, one of the strongest predictors, was boreal forests. It turns out that boreal forests, particularly with trees, which are seasonal, where the trees periodically shed their leaves and drop the their leaves onto the onto the ground. So these are not evergreens or conifers. These would be other trees you find mixed in with conifers, essentially. You find that these trees actually, they do chemical warfare on the insects and the parasites living in the rhizosphere, ie the soil volume around the roots, by carpet bombing the soil with these leaves, which contain nicotinoids and tannins and other things which are highly toxic to parasites.

And what happens is this has reduced the parasitic load in the environment to a point where you can then have selection pressures favoring traits among human populations living in those environments and taking advantage of that natural chemical warfare that's being waged by plants on parasites. And it's the same with with the consumption of the consumption of nicotine directly as a smoking product, or something that you eat, that has a huge effect on your parasite burden. So if you're in a population where you're not likely to live long enough, on average, to suffer lung cancer, which is a disease of old age, it's associated with chronic smoking, then the benefits to smoking far outweigh the costs.