---
layout:     post
title:      Gay pathogen hypothesis
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - degeneracy
---

Discuss cochran's gay pathogen hypothesis.

Well, the argument that gregory cochrane made was along with Paul Evild, and this was published in an article they wrote together on this sort of new german theory, as they called it. Uh, so this attempt to sort of extend cox postulates, these theories of, uh, the sort of foundations of the german theory of disease are these things called cox postulates. And poor people have this theory that cancers, for example, are caused by pathogen infections that are sexually transmitted, or transmitted through osculation, that sort of thing, uh, or through maternal milk. And he argues that this is what causes most cancers. He's a bit of a nutter, but the, but they also added in this bit about the Gay germ theory, which greg cochrane sort of elaborated on in subsequent blog posts. And this idea is that basically, the, uh, homosexuality, he argued, has low concordance among twins. This is based on old datex it turns out that's not true. But better quality data shows it's about fifty percent, which is about the ability. But the older studies show sort of highly mixed numbers, with some estimates as low as ten percent or twenty percent, of what have you. And uh, he argued that this meant there had to be some nongenetic, uh mechanism which was causative of Androphilia in men, because theory didn't explain gynophilia in women, that's lesbianism. Now, he argued it was a parasite. And he argued that it needed to be a parasite in part because this could also explain the coevolution of Homophobia. So he argued that Homophobia would would be protected against transmission of his pathogens. So if you keep your children away from gay men, he argued this reduced the likelihood of the children picking up the pathogen, and then, you know, phenocopying the homosexual phenotype, essentially.

Uh, as for whether the theory stands up to scrutiny, I don't believe it. Um, I think that the basis on which he made the uh made his theoretical claims is flawed. The convergence among the twins is much, much higher than he thought because of new data. And also, we have a ton of data showing that it seems to have been under selection across primates, because if you look at all these different primates, you can actually get, uh, frequency counts of what are called samesex genital interactions. And you can use the species levels of these frequencies of samesex genital interactions to work out, uh, what the phylogenetic correlates of homosexuality are across species, using a thing called comparative biogenetic analysis. And we've actually done that. We've written up a paper on this. We found it seems to be associated with sociality. So more highly social species of more, uh, gay male and gay female members, so higher frequencies of both male and female samesex genital interaction. So whatever's driving it, it seems to be related to sociality evolutionarily as well, which is interesting. These develop levels, the differences in the means of samesex genital interactions, occur very early on during cladogenesis, rather than later.

Would that work within within a species, though, within races, that the more social race would have more homosexuality?

You would predict that, yes, uh, if this pattern across primates, actually holds across human taxes. Yeah, of course. But i've, i've not found good data on race differences in sexuality. I don't know why. Doc

But the point, the point I was making is that germ theories can't explain these patterns of phylogenetic correlations we see in in primates. No, all right, good. So it's therefore more parsimonious theory.