---
layout:     post
title:      Dunning Kruger effect doesn't replicate
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - science
---

Well, the interesting thing about the Danny krieger effect is that, a, it wasn't discovered by dunning and Kruger. For those who aren't familiar with what it is?

well, the Danny Kruger Effect is a purported tendency for people with low intelligence to sort of consistently overrate their own ability relative to people with high intelligence. So the idea is, high intelligence, more intelligent people actually have the uh uh, actually have the sort of good self monitoring ability, and they're able to sort of accurately determine their own level of intelligence. But people with low intelligence will tend to sort of overrate their own intelligence, because presumably the ability to know one's own intelligence is itself related to one's basic level of intelligence. It's like a kind of error thing. Even more error for everything, among people with low intelligence, less error among people with high intelligence. 

The dunningkruger effect doesn't seem to replicate at all. And I actually reviewed a paper for intelligence recently where they tested variations of the socalled dunningkruger effect. And we couldn't find any evidence for it at all. It was a decent data set. If anything, evidence pointed towards a slightly opposite tendency, a slight, sort of positive association between the dispersion between the self rating of intelligence and other rating of intelligence. And the level of intelligence, the sort of dispersion seemed to increase slightly, which suggested the opposite, a sort of Antidone in Kruger effect.

Research on personality differences between people that are involved in hard science and people that are involved in social sciences, particularly, quite a lot of research on in the netherlands. And people that are involved in the hard Sciences tend to be hiring conscientiousness and higher and agreeableness. And interestingly, this means that at an undergraduate level, they tend to actually, even though they have higher iq than social science people they tend to be more religious, because religiousness is associated with heart, with agreeableness and conscientiousness. Whereas these people that do social science subjects, and more so humanity's subjects, tend to have lower agreeableness and lower the person out of the artist, basically lower agreeableness and lower conscientiousness, and thus just less reasonable people and have higher selfesteem.