---
layout:     post
title:      rural areas are higher K
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - life-history
---

Since rural areas are more conservative, are they more k

Yes. Okay, well, I'd say that generally, higher people are more likely to be found in rural areas, simply because they tend to be more predictability loving. They probably prefer the sort of stability of the countryside to the, uh, hurley burley of the city. 

They're also, presumably, they're also the the descendants of people that haven't emigrated, so they're probably less intelligent, aren't they? Yes. You see this in China actually. There is a definite distinction between people who live in the countryside and people who live in the cities. There's even a special term for it in China. It's called, like, uh Gao Quinn or something, or bayasu or has some funny name. But they have a status they assign to people who live in, the in the countryside. And there's a paper actually, by will Miller at Al which came out in intelligence and that paper showed there was a fairly significant difference in the iqs between chinese country dwellers and chinese city folk.

So people live in the countryside can be expected to be high K and low iq. That would be my guess. Yes. I can't imagine really very fast life history people being attracted to the countryside. 

With age as well. So as people get older, they get higher in conscientiousness, higher in agreeableness, these are more k traits, and they become they want to move to the countryside. So so there's there's an age effect on on, on going to the countryside.