---
layout:     post
title:      Can Europeans be indigenous to Europe?
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - multi-racialism
---

Bbc Sami. Are there indigenous people in the Eu? So they need protection? Does that make scandinavians, germanics, celts or slavs, space aliens?

I don't know what definition makes something in someone indigenous. Apparently it's that they got there first and that they never, I guess it's that they never adopted. For agriculture. I'm all full agriculture. I guess that must be the definition of, that must be what they mean by indigenous. I can't see how it could be anything else. Indigenous is hunter gatherers, or people that have somehow, I don't know. What do you think, what's indigenous mean?

Well, I've always taken indigenous to mean the populations that settled a particular region first and are still extant or coextant in that region. So for example, you could say that in the Uk. It's basically the original celtic and anglo peoples, who are the indigenous peoples of the United Kingdom. Whereas in somewhere like Canada, you're looking at you're looking at the europeans being a settler people. Whereas the indigenous people are a local sort of amerindian, arctic people grouping, some ammo Indians. 

Should we go back further? Shouldn't we argue that the anglosaxons came after the celts, and so the celts are indigenous, more indigenous than the anglosaxons?

Well, yes, you could. You could actually argue that celts are more indigenous to the United Kingdom than the anglosaxons. And maybe you get a similar thing in the case of Sweden, where you have a very, very old population up there of essentially amerindianoid type people, the Sami, and then you have the same with finland as well. I mean, you have these more recent, more caucasian people who came a little bit later on, but still have been there for many millennia.

So there's a subjective political thing to it. They would probably say no, the finns aren't indigenous. The finns, the finns, you know, the finns have always had immigrants. That's what they say. But the Sami has to be preserved. They're indigenous. They have this, they have this mantle of indigenousness. And have to have a sami parliament, which is basically a talking shop. And you are sami by by ethnicity. You can't just become sami. That you are allowed to be sami by law in finland, by virtue of having a sami grandparent, I think, or great grandparent.

Well, that's an artifact of having a sort of double standard.

It's a double stance. They would say that finns, no, no, you to be finished if you move here from Somalia and you get a finished path for your finish. But then then these indigenous people, these armies, know, you've got to be it's a racial thing.