---
layout:     post
title:      British genetics Celtic Ra1 Rb1 Germanic I1
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genetic-determinism
 - bio-culture
 - british-ethnos
---

How do Brits differ genetically from other euros? 

Well, I i think the best answer to that is, you know, we're practically perfect in every way, and, euros aren't. But basically, the reality is, british people tend to have very heavy Iberio celtic ancestry fractions. So a lot of hyper group R1, r1a, R1b, etc. Found in very high levels in Britain in particular. There's a bit of introduction with hacker group I as well. You find that in place at certain places, in the East coast, like East Anglia, the sort of heavy infiltration of these scandinavian haplogroups. That's just a sort of compositional difference. There's a sort of signature difference, because each population has a sort of signature permutation of haplogroups.

At a more fundamental level, british people are a more imperial, the most imperial people in the world, in terms of having successfully constructed and maintained empires through which they were able to massively multiply and leverage growth in their biomass. And they, they did this to an extent that's never been seen before in the world, the sort of anglophone ethnic group, or britannic ethnic group, as we call it, which is basically all english speaking people and their descendants in the world, sort of include Americans, canadians, anzac people, etc. This, this, this was a very successful act of imperialism. And and the British were the most strongly group selected population during the 18th and 19th century. And this is why they were capable of expanding so far. They were victorious in group selection and in intergroup competition. And this process was also, was instrumental to their acquiring this repertoire of traits which predispose them towards industrialization during the period. But Gregory Clark documents, he talks about of his downwardly mobile, sort of superfluous descendants of sundry landed families and things, who descended lower and lower down, but ultimately bootstrap those niches. Well, this was all set against the context of incredibly strong intergroup competition which was valencing that selection very substantially. Especially if trades like intelligence, where the payoffs are often at the group level, it can be for very high levels of intelligence.

I think one thing i've been looking i've been thinking about in terms of these ethnic differences, is the balance between ethnocentrism and genius. And I think that you have this thing with the fins, for example, the ecology is so harsh and the gene pool is so small that you can't, you can't, you have to have an ethnocentric strategy to survive. You you can't do this strategy of the genius, of having lots of geniuses that come with brilliant things, because that requires a larger gene pool to do that. And then, and you can't afford to do that, because then you'll just be selected out. You can't deviate enough from the from the norm to have to do what the British do more, I think, which is to be less ethnocentric. But this allows you to expand. It allows you to trade it. It'll be your gene pool can get bigger because the ecology is less harsh. This pushes up the standard deviational intelligence and on personality it means you're more likely to get these outliers, these geniuses that manifest, and then come up with women's inventions and so on. And they allow you to train more and allow you to dominate. And then as you move away from Britain, then the environment isn't harsh enough, perhaps. And so the intelligence isn't high enough, and the level of psychopathic personality is perhaps too high, or the level of mental instability is too high. And so the British may be this just this goldilocks zone that, combined with the environmental factor of the stress, I think maybe relevant as well. Once Scotland was sorted, so we had an enemy on our doorstep that was doing alliances with France and Turkey and basically any country that it could to try and destroy us. And once Scotland came under our our control, then that was significant as well.

You no, no, you came under our control. Let's get this right. Put our king on your throne and don't you forget it. Well, yes, but, we also had to eventually remove that king and put a dutchman in his place when he, when he got out of line. But, that's why the English is the best. So up with the English and down with the rest, in the words of Michael flanders. One thing was, I did a paper some years ago on differences between british and continental philosophy. And it's very interesting that we have lower levels of, there's, on various proxies, we seem to have lower levels of neuroticism, than the french or the germans. Um, so we are. We're more mentally stable. We're less prone to succumbing to stress. And it's very interesting that the kind of philosophy that's dominant in, not just in England, but in England related countries, is this logical not, you know, this logical philosophy, right? Whereas the the philosophy that's dominant in Germany and France is this this idealism, this ideology, this this pseudoquasi religion in some ways, which I wonder is is potentially relevant. What do you think? Well, yes, you've got to understand that these, you know, these philosophies are not just plucked out of the ether by, uh, shepherds who wander around thinking about things. Um, no, the philosophies themselves arise as a consequence of culture, gene coevolution. So in other words, there are certain idea sets which appeal to people when they are subject to a certain regime of selection that ultimately favors what makes those ideas workable. So liberal, liberal type values needed liberal people of a liberal genetic disposition in order to actually work. Otherwise they wouldn't work as it's as simple as that. If you take, if you take democracy and you try to impose it on people in Afghanistan and people on in, you know, other middle eastern countries, they reject it, and and they turn to caliphates and things because genetically, they haven't evolved, they haven't coevolved within the context of a democratic society with high trust, high individualism. You know, these things are all genetic, right? They're all and at the group level, they're very genetic. So if you people come to ideas when they are genetically ready to do so. And those ideas just are reflections, these enlightenment values are just reflections of underlying genetic trends in western populations that have favored high related to us in terms of democracy as well. I know in Finland in comparison to England, is a a highly conformist society, which means that democracy is is more debased in a way, and it falls into dictatorship more easily, as it did under kek and, in my view, and and under the lack of movement and so on. It's just they were more conformist. And their element to democracy is that you have to have high trust, and they do have that. But it also element to it is that you have to be prepared to criticize your leaders. And they're increasingly doing that, but historically, they've been less prepared to to do so.