---
layout:     post
title:      Oswald Spengler + life history subtypes of genius
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genius
---

What do you think about oswald spengler?

I think I was told spengler was a brilliant man. And one of the things I love about oswald spengler is he found a way of combining botany with sort of quasi dysgenic models of history. I love his garden analogies, because he had this whole, uh, this whole sort of model of the rise and fall of civilizations, where he divided them into seasons. And he talked about, was using the garden as the analogy about how things wither and fall, like the plants going to seed and all this sort of thing. So really rather wonderful.

But of course, he was not necessarily the first person to think about cyclical civilizations. As those attentive individuals among you who have read our book, we look at, uh, even calden, and we also look at polybius of Megalopolis, who were probably, well, polybius was probably the first person in recorded history who talked to population cycles, and who noted that the demographic shifts and changes in reproductive behavior, especially among the elites, which seem to presage such demographic collapse. So spengler was sort of, he was a revivalist. He revived the cyclical theory of history, and, really did more than anybody else to draw largescale attention to it. So, he was a genius. He's someone whose work i've actually cited my own work. And I think he was very brilliant descriptive thinker. He painted very vivid images with his words, even in translation, but the sort of quality isn't lost on the reader, with good translations of his books. And, he was a genius, as far as I'm concerned.

Quite rightly. So, died very young. Sadly, died very young. That's right. But a lot of geniuses do. They have a bimodal mortality curve. They either die very young, like in their thirties or they die very old, in their eighties or nineties. There are both fast and slow life history geniuses. Slow life history geniuses would be geniuses who are domain specialists, who really dig deep into a field to the point at which they can see novel connections between things that those that haven't invested the cognitive effort into specializing to that extent can't do so.

But don't all geniuses do that? No, they don't. What do they do? There are different production styles of genius. Some geniuses are very syncretic and eclectic. They simply pull ideas together. There's fast life history modes of creative production, slow life history modes of creative production. One is characterized by eclecticism, pulling things together in high risk, high fidelity, low fidelity, rather high risk. Sort of combinatorial, novelty generation with sort of little filtering. Essentially like a kind of externalized schizophrenia.

And the other type are specialists who allocate effort into digging down deeply into very narrow in niche areas. And, they basically can then see things that others can't, because they're so far deep down into their field that they, they're, they're at a level that the others haven't gotten to, and all of a sudden see connections.


Who would be an example that have a slow life history genius in your view? Very good example of this might be Francis Daulton. Charles Darwin would be another example of this. Charles babbage should be another example. Lord Kelvin, James Clark, Maxwell, Albert Einstein.

So what about fast life history history? One fast life history, ones would include maybe newton. In my schemata of polytomization of these subtypes, most of the past life history, geniuses are not actually found in the sciences. They're found outside of the sciences. They're found in literature. They're found in art. They're found in in philosophy. And they're found in softer fields, essentially in the soft pole of psychology to use Symmetry Simmington's unilinear ranking of disciplines based on levels.