---
layout:     post
title:      10 000 hour rule Practice itself is genetically determined
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genetic-determinism
---

Thoughts on the ten thousand year rule? No, ten thousand hour rule of expertise and purposeful practice? Yes, I can give my thoughts on that. What's the general explanatory framework for expertise, if you is? Is this a reference to the ten thousand hour rule of Gladwell, yes. And I i think, I think he's admitted it's crap as well. 

It's a madeup number. 

It's just bollocks. I look at it, I look at it in my book, absolute rubbish. There is a very strong degree to which you will be good at sport for genetic reasons. And there is a certain because you have the appropriate body type, or, or the appropriate kind of mind, or a combination of the two, there is a degree to which, of course, practice can help. I read a paper a while ago on race and darts, and one of the things that you find is that people that are good at darts are overwhelmingly white. And people say, oh, well, that's because darts was played in pubs and they were white working class, or whatever. But that's, that's crap, because also, people that are good at darts are of North East asian heritage as well. And you get quite a few people who are indonesian living in the netherlands. And people like, ... And they're in the pdc. I mean, they're doing, they're doing well in darts. And there's other lamb, I think his name was, from Hong Kong. And it's this kind of body build, this more endomorphic body build, but it's the same which make, which means that you have quite a lot of flexibility in the body, quite a lot of fat, basically, and quite a lot of upper body strength. That seems to make you good at darts. It's nothing to do with, it is to do with practice. I mean, someone like Phil Taylor said that. I mean, he would basically, his working day, when he wasn't, in a tournament, was to get up in the morning and just play darts all day, have a break at lunch. They'd ask some more, obviously, it does help. But the idea that if you can just practice anything, you're going to get good at it, it's not, I'm afraid, necessarily the case. 

It's interesting too, to note that the degree to which one is inclined towards practice, is itself heritable. And there was a very good study published by Guy Madison, which looked at, was his group over at uh, over in Sweden. They looked specifically at the degree to which practice musical practice, so the amount of hours people put into practicing musical instruments. They looked at the degree to which that was heritable and the degree to which it genetically mediated the association, um, the sort of affinity for a particular instrument. And they actually found that when you control the genetic covariance, the effective practice, independent of the genetic factors failed completely. So it's just nothing. There essentially nothing left over. So so it implies that you do need practice to get good at something. Obviously, you're not going to be able to play the piano if you've never learned. However, your interests and what bouchard and Johnson would call the experience producing drive. So this is the degree to which your interests kind of crystallize around patterns of reinforcement that come about from, having having sort of a more fundamental attraction to something. And then you you you reinforce that by crystallizing knowledge. And that that is, putting your practice in the experience producing drive is highly genetic. And people will practice because they're interested in practicing.

If they find they're good at it, then, of course, they'll practice more, because they'll get positive experiences from I mean, there was that guy that learned icelandic in two weeks, autistic, and he was able to sit on icelandic tv and have a reasonable conversation in icelandic having learned the language for two weeks. Yes, some people can do that. They have incredibly, they have the incredibly, sort of porous brains, essentially.

But again, that those affinities are highly genetically constrained. There's, there's no way in which you can make somebody who is absolutely disinterested in music, who doesn't want to practice, who has a tone death ear, and try to force them to play the piano.

Certainly there's a lot you can do about someone who the sort of x factor type, who who is interested in music and does want to do it, but it's just crap. Um. There's, there's a strong genetic, basically, element to, you know, whether or not you're going to be, are good at something. I mean, I was fascinated always when I was at university and there are all these, girls in the philosophy department that would spend ages and ages and ages on their their undergraduate dissertations and get firsts in the undergraduate dissertation. And my friend Jerome, who was just an alcoholic, um, dashed off his twelve thousand word dissertation in one night after drinking half a bottle of gin, and got first in it. So, you know, there are these, there are these different there are these limitations.

Yeah, that's right.