---
layout:     post
title:      High trust commons
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - ethics
 - northern-european
---

OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE IS PRODUCTION OF HIGH TRUST COMMONS – NO ONE ELSE CAN DO IT

Sorry, but white competitive superiority is real because we can create commons and no one else can – including the Asians, the Indians, and the Jews. That’s why people want proximity to whites – we create the intangibles that they can’t. We do it with rule of law of natural law.

This is what’s escaping the political discourse. We make it possible for others to prosper. Because they can’t do it on their own. Why? Only Europeans practice truth before face regardless of the cost, and we raise generations for high investment in, and duty to the commons, not kin.

Every other polity other than Japan and South Korea failed. And even those Confucian societies don’t practice truth before face – they just avoid lying at all costs. Secondly, travel the world. Listen to what people talk about. European minds ‘think differently’ – about commons.

[https://naturallawinstitute.com/our-competitive-advantage-is-production-of-high-trust-commons-no-one-else-can-do-it/](https://naturallawinstitute.com/our-competitive-advantage-is-production-of-high-trust-commons-no-one-else-can-do-it/)

------------

Whites CAN create commons so they prefer to create commons and live off them.

Commons are difficult to produce but they are cheap given the returns. Producing a high trust civic polity does not require high income. it just requires truth, duty, trust, and reciprocity.

Quality of life is not expensive. It just requires choice of commons rather than choice of material consumption.

[https://naturallawinstitute.com/its-because-we-can-produce-commons-and-reduce-individual-costs/](https://naturallawinstitute.com/its-because-we-can-produce-commons-and-reduce-individual-costs/)