---
layout:     post
title:      Superior by Angela Saini
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - politics
---

Well, essentially, Saini, her book is basically one of the sort of large number of these books which get published roughly once every five to ten years. And they usually come out too much fanfare. And they embody the old adage of sound and fury signifying precisely nothing. She's an extraordinarily good writer, um, as was uh Steven J. Gould when he penned the mismeasure of man, as was Stephen rose when he was the lead author on not in our genes. Rose lewinton and K amen. Uh Richardson is another one who wrote a book which came out about five years ago.

And they typically, they typically sort of retread the same territory over and over again. They, they usually, they usually sort of pick on these specific claims, which, which are taken as gospel within certain quarters. And those claims are then used as a basis to try and sort of deconstruct an entire field of research. Often what's remarkable about this, and this sort of segues into what you were saying, about the issue of the simple lack of knowledge that a lot of our, our interlocutors have concerning the sort of technical specifics of our field. The these criticisms are presented as if they were sort of absolute gotchas, and as if no one in our field had actually thought to look at the data, or thought about the issue in this way.

A really good example of one of these critiques, which comes up time and time and time again. And you see this in not in our genes, for example, which came out in 1984. And by the way, for those of you who are interested in, who like Richard Dawkins, you may, you may be interested in seeing his 1985 review of it in new scientists, which was so scurrilous that Steve rose apparently threatened to sue him, or so the rumor goes over the content of this review. So basically, one of the claims they made in in that book is that variation in intelligence can be explained by nonshared, sorry, by shared environment. So that is to say, the environment in the home, sort of corearing, essentially. And it turns out, based on metaanalysis, we've known this now for a number of years, that there's absolutely no role for shared environment whatsoever in generating variability in Iq. So essentially, insofar as there's any kind of an environmental impact, it seems to be random factors in the environment, which is statistically indistinguishable from error. And we put those into the Nonshared Environment Category, including error, by the way not the shared environment category.

So you see this time after time again. These these sort of canards, essentially, against our field that trotted out. We didn't take into account nonshared environment. We're not being sensitive to the reality of the absence of any kind of structuring among populations that corresponds to socalled race, you know, Xyz, etc, a whole bunch of these critiques. And they never actually seem to check the literature. They never seem to look at what's being done in the field. They're almost a decade or two, behind us, essentially in terms of, in terms of what we've actually achieved and the ground we've always covered.

So my own, I know you got very excited when, Angela's book came out, and he wanted to review it. And I know he has reviewed it, and I know a lot of people in our field have put out their own reviews of the book. And there are a couple in the technical literature that are going to be appearing soon. But my attitude towards these sort of things is just sort of blasé. I'm not really interested. It's the same with that nasim taleb guy. I'm not really interested in anything he has to say, because nothing of what he says actually withstands scrutiny. Nothing of what he says is, is, is correct at a technical level. So why should we pay attention to every crank, every lunatic with their own agenda? 

Don't, don't imply that a certain person is anything like that. Every misinformed individual, there are quite a few cranks out there who have a go at us as well, but every every technically competent, but otherwise misinformed individual who wants to basically run us down. I think it would make our lives very miserable if we paid attention to every single one of these instances. And we should just take a sort of attitude of Supreme Indifference to this whenever it happens. And my advice is, ignore it and it'll go away. It invariably always does. 

Well, as you know, you have a good point, but the problem is that it, that it got this particular one, because she's  south asian, because she's female, because she's been involved in the bbc and whatever other things, has got an enormous amount of publicity in the Uk. Anyway, certainly far more than previous attempts. And so I think there was a feeling that it kind of had to be replied to.

I don't think so, I don't think her book is, is anywhere near as close to becoming a kind of classic of the antihereditarian school as, I'd say, the mismeasure of man was. One thing would be really interesting to look at with these, with these critiques, is how far they go towards accommodating certain things in the field which have become clearly undeniable, like the idea that Iq is hereditary, for example. There's a heritable variable.

One of the points that noah made in his critique is that there are some points on which that book is unclear, because it kind of is forced to accommodate these things. It it kind of is compelled to, even though it doesn't want to. But, I mean, I suppose a book that doesn't even know which of Darwin's books was the one that attempted to refute evolution, and thinks that's the descent of man...