---
layout:     post
title:      Reaction time research
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - dysgenics
---

The only countries where we can make comparisons in terms of reaction time speed, going all the way back to the 18 to the 18 the late 19th century, sort of 1880s, 1890s of America, the only two countries. So we have american data from the 1890s, we have british data from the 1880s. We have american and british data from subsequent decades. That's the only, there's the only countries for which we can make those comparisons. And yes, it does see, within America and the Uk, the decline in the speed of reaction, simple visual reaction time, is approximately equal. Although keep in mind, the 19th century british sample is over 6 000 individuals. It's huge. It's the golden sample. The american sample is a tiny, tiny, tiny, little sample collected by a woman, one of the early psychometrical pioneers of women of the University of Chicago, called Jane Thompson. And she put this out. There's only 99 individuals for whom we have data that are comparable with our other analyses. We have a little, tiny american study from the 19th century, big british study, but the show roughly equivalent values. So apparently, yes. America and Britain were faster in the 19th century than America and Britain are today. 

We did a study on, believe it or not, um, the uh, swedish people. And we had data on swedes going back to the 1950s. And, what we did is we had, we had a whole load of swedes who all took exactly the same reaction time test. It was a measure of audio reaction time. And the oldest swedes were born in the 50s. The youngest ones were born in the 90s. And what we were able to do was correlate the speed of reaction time with age. And what usually happens is that the older the sample gets, the slower its reaction times. Because general intelligence actually decreases as you get older. Agerelated cognitive decline is all about losing G. 

Here's the interesting thing, when we looked at this cohort, we found the opposite. We found the older samples were faster than the younger samples. And when we adjusted the trend for the expected agerelated cognitive decline, which you can do because there's longitudinal data that allows you to generate a correction factor, this just made it worse. This made the older cohort even faster than they were before. What this means is that basically, in Sweden, the reaction time has been slowing considerably. And it's been slowing so much and so fast that it's overpowered the counteractive effect of age-related cognitive decline that should be slowing the reaction times among the oldest. Instead, we get the fastest reaction times among the oldest.

So something very odd is happening in Sweden. And that's another country for which we have good data and good evidence for this reaction time slowing. There's a different measure of reaction time as well. This audio simple reaction time, rather than visual simple reaction time, which was one in the original victorian's paper. He took all of the countries that we had. We had five countries, Australia, Canada, Finland. We had the Uk's with five countries. He took all five of them. He computed weighted averages for their reaction time scores. This was using just the modern cohorts, and not the 19th century. Once this is born, there's cohorts from the 1970s onwards. And he cross validated our reaction time study by doing something very clever. He correlated the average reaction time of each of these countries from our study with their national iq and their pisa scores. And he found really, really strong correlations between the three different measures. So yeah, the countries which have the fastest reaction times, like finland, for example, also had the best pisa scores. They also got the highest National Iq Averages. They also have the highest frequencies of polygenic scores for iq as well of any european population.