---
layout:     post
title:      K strategists are prepared for plasticity
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - life-history
 - science
---

Male brains take longer to develop. Why?

Well, because because they're bigger, more complex, presumably. 

And does this mean lower heritability regarding iq? 

Well, in, actually, in females, the heritability of traits might be just a tiny bit lower on average. Um, and one possible reason for this is because females might have been selected more for what Sarah hurdy refers to as evolved plasticity. So in other words, females are very expensive to produce. And this means that that that they, they have to, basically, do a lot of sort of adaptive bet hedging in terms of not necessarily committing to any one canalization pathway in the course of development. They might need to keep their options open. So there's this whole debate in evolutionary psychology.

When you say they're expensive to produce, is that because it's inherently more k strategy to have females, because they're, it is more case selected to have they can't have as many offspring as a male cannon, that's right. And females are more k selected than males.

As a matter of fact, a third of the variance in individual differences in psychometrically measured life history due to sex differences, compared to eight percent, which is race differences. Much, much bigger sex difference in life history than there is any other kind of group difference. So in theory, a man can get numerous women pregnant every night.

This is the expensive soma hypothesis. So one possibility is, if you're, if you're, if you're being very careful in constructing a phenotype that's not expensive and disposable, like a male phenotype is ostensibly supposed to be, then what you might do is you might invest in preloading that, uh, that organism with some specialized epigenetic machinery, which allows them to be much more sensitive in development to the presence of certain environmental cues which might change. And might require the phenotype to be plastic and openended in terms of tracking this.

So there's a huge debate in evolutionary psychology at the moment about whether the ovulatory shift hypothesis is real or not. This is the replication crisis comes to evolutionary psychology and the first casualty seems to be the ovulatory shift hypothesis. And this is the idea that females sexual preferences shift at different times of the month based on whether they are cycling, whether they are on easteros or not, and or rather, whether they are ovulating or not.

And essentially, the the the argument seems to be, the data are very mixed, and there's always preregistered studies of purport to be able to disprove the effect, but it turns out there's coding errors. And one of the big ones of these, and it looks like the whole thing's going to have to be done all over and all this sort of thing.

So insofar as there might be some validity to aspects of this sort of model, like the ovulatory shift model, that presupposes that females have more uh, have more uh in more more of a role of development and developmental cues in shaping the phenotype than purely sort of heart, would critical hard hereditary queues. And some evidence of this comes from life history research. There's one attempt has been made to estimate the heritability of the mini-k which is like a short form measure of life history, used to estimate how fast someone's pace of life is, essentially. And it turns out women have much lower heritability for the mini K than men, which could be consistent with this idea. But women actually generally have lower trait heritabilities for many things, um, personalitywise than men.

The more k selected an organism is the the less of its the more of its behavior is. It's just hardwired, isn't it? I mean, the degree to which a wasp varies in personality from another wasp is quite limited. It's learned behavior is a K thing. Would that be fair?

Well, yes, a paper which came out in 2015, which tried to measure plasticity by computing individual level heritabilities for each participant in my study using a special formula that I developed. And then what I was able to do was correlate the level of the person's sort of personal heritability with their sensitivity to developmental branchiness, right, whether they become specialized or not. And we found correlations between those two things. So, in other words, people who had higher levels of life history, speed. Not only had lower personal heritabilities, but they also tended to have more branchiness. They they tended to more, tended to be more specialized.

And what we interpreted this to mean was that part of being k elected is being prepared. This is an evolutionary developmental term, being prepared for high levels of plasticity. This is based on Sarah Hurdy's work, who's a very brilliant evolutionary developmental biologist. And her idea of preparedness and plasticity is these dimensions of, uh, of evolution where you have, you have selection for these epigenetic mechanisms that that can cause adaptive calibration to environmental cues.