---
layout:     post
title:      Moral Facts
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - politics
---

The sort of moral philosophers that I i have issues with are utilitarians and people who think you can actually model morality using experiments in which you hypothetically inflict violence on one or more individuals, such as these trolley car experiments. I had this theory that a lot of the people who get interested in those sort of experiments are morally dubious people, who actually think that morality works like that, that people do these calculations that people have, people sort of keep mental ledgers of what's not all what's the greatest harm, and all this sort of thing. And really, if you look at the evolution of morality and moral orientations, you can see people don't actually have that kind of they don't do that. That's not how people. That's not how people. That's not how moral cognition works. It really isn't. People don't think in terms of trolley cars and things. And trying to map morality out like that is is it probably says more about people who are interested in doing that than the actual mechanics of how people process moral information.

I'd also like to point out that moral realism is really, really dumb. And by moral realism, I I'm not talking about moral realism in the sense of  religious moral realism. I'm talking about the secular moral realism, the salt which trafficks in socalled moral facts.

Yes, equality is is, that's right. So, so where do they get off on making those claims? That's what I want to know. Ideology, business claims are completely stupid. And they're not even internally consistent. If you look at the arguments they make for the existence of these things. They took quite a very good friend of mine from when I was an undergraduate, they sh*t all over themselves.

Yeah, moral realism, there's no it's no more believable than believing in God to just assert there are certain moral facts. It's just asserting. You're either in our group and you accept these things, or you're not. So bugger off. There's no, it's no argue. It's no argument. How do you deal with an interlocutor who doesn't accept your moral fact, you can't. You have to just dismiss him as evil. Indeed, your reference to the word sh**. I i heard someone's arguments to some youtuber, his argument to the fact, if you don't accept these moral facts, then you're a shitty person. That was the best he came up with

. I agree. But i'd also add to what you're saying by pointing out that, if you look at the issue of where a lot exists to human biodiversity related research comes from on the left. We know that it's predominantly people on the left who have a problem with this. There's not really much opposition to it on the right. Seems to be the overall position on the right is that people just obliviously unaware and don't really care one way or another. The traits are heritable and non randomly distributed between groups of people. But the thing is, if you look at people on the left, a lot of people say, very wellmeaning people, including people in our field, and I'm not going to name names, but a lot of these people say, oh, well, the reason why people on the left don't believe in, you know, they don't accept the science on this question. And they don't realize how good it is, is because they're just, they're wellintentioned people that they're just ignorant. They just don't know enough about the relevant material. They need to be educated. You know as well as I do, that there are people on our field, who, in our field, rather, who are who are constantly going out trying to educate people by writing papers in philosophy journals and things, and trying to explain what's going on. 

And they really think it's all about being misguided. It's not. What's happening is, these people on the left have moral facts. And these moral facts take priority over nonmoral facts, ie facts which are uncovered in the course of empirical investigation. And if a nonmoral fact comes into conflict moral fact, then the moral fact takes priority. By which I mean that the conflict is a function of some human failing in the process of doing science. As Gould said, racism, people leaning on the scales to give whites to brain mass advantage, like his allegations he made against Morton, or over packing skulls, or what have you, this sort of thing. There are all these human biases that must cause scientific facts to resemble amoral facts in practice. And as long as those scientific facts are not in alignment with the moral facts, they are always suspect, and they are always to be rejected. They, in other words, scientific facts that conflict with moral facts function as what are called profound counterfactuals. So we'll never ever ever get these these real facts the contradict their moral facts

As Angela Saney argued, well, you could always find some alluring piece of supposedly peerreviewed research back up any supposed facts that you think is a fact. The idea is you should have faith, you should have faith in your moral facts. If you don't have faith in these moral facts, then you're a bad person. So it's a fun I don't think, yeah, I would agree they need to be educated. They're just wicked and I'm perfectly happy to say that they're just spiteful mutants. They're just witches. They're just, there's no education about them. They need to be educated as nature, as to misquote nature, they need to be educated...