---
layout:     post
title:      Vaccine autism is environmental determinist cope
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - mutations
---

What are your thoughts on vaccines as related to a health of your family? Would you vaccine your kids in all conventional ways? 

I have my children vaccinated, and I see no reason not to. And that's it. I'd if you get you can die of measles. Roald Dahl's daughter, sophie died of measles. Uh, I have a friend who in 75, in the 70s, who nearly died of meals. So I would vaccinate my children against these things. 

And this idea that it creates autism. I'm thinking that people this at about the age of three. They don't tend to be people that seem to notice things like this before, about the age of three. So it could be a coincidence that they've been vaccinated. It's my understanding is that the medical science is not happy about the assertion. And also, it's causing there to be all these diseases that we thought were wiped out coming back. So I do vaccinate my my children. And I i can see arguments why it should be compulsory. 

As for dysgenics. Undoubtedly it is going to lead to disgenics in terms of the immune system and and so on. Because you would expect mutations in one aspect to cause mutations in the in the mind.

Obviously, the data purporting a link between vaccines and autism is wrong. It does not seem to have withstood empirical scrutiny. There's no real mechanism through which vaccines could cause autism either. It just doesn't seem to need to be very plausible I think they claim it's the mercury preservatives that are used in some of the older vaccines that might have done it, but that doesn't seem reasonable.

No, the real reason autism rates are increasing is because, within the population, and there are very strong paternal age effects on Autisticlike personality and, the age of the father, the odds of producing an autistic child increases you age as a father. So if mutations are increasing over time due to relaxed negative selection, then we'd expect not just autism rates to increase, but a whole bunch of other, uh, sort of associated psychobehavioral abnormalities to increase as well, like adhd, schizophrenia, there's thing called the Recency Hypothesis, which is based on the idea that there are no, there are no sort of descriptions of any mental diseases that correspond to schizophrenia before the 1700s, the first case of schizophrenia appears to have been around 1750. 

So these are, these are diseases of modernity. These are diseases associated with an increase in mutation load. And this whole idea that vaccines are causing it is a sort of environmental determinist cope. Essentially. It's an attempt to sort of cope with the reality of accumulating mutations that's what's really causing it.

And it's funny, because I think the establishment was sort of presented with that as the alternative explanation. They probably prefer that people went around thinking it was a vaxine. 

There's a very interesting book by a finnish researcher which looks at the whole socio biology controversy. It's called something like, defenders of the truth. And she puts it down was to a religious distinction, really, between those who were the augustinians, and who do believe in free will, and those who think everything's preordained. And that then feeds into genetic determinism. And in the opposite, those who think that religiously, that everything's in our own hands. And that feeds into environmental determinism. The predetermined view leads to calvinism, and it leads to a kind of a very dowel way of looking at the world, a very dark way of looking at the world, whereby we can't control anything. And there's something more satisfying about the it's all in our own hands views.

And even with the intelligence research, now, there have been a few mainstream documentaries on mainstream channels on intelligence going down. And then the one I was on in France and the one I was on in Germany, to some extent, they, they, they slanted to try and explain it in environmental terms the Barbie model. 

It's interesting. Barbie, as we call her, has gotten has actually gotten a lot of flack, because it turns out that people are using her work to try and sort of make claims about vaccines. Because, as you know, she thinks neurotoxins cause everything, cause autism and cause and it's all these everpresent neurotoxins like mercury and lead and, you know, alcohol and all this sort of thing. And, I've seen her get defensive about that. That's sort of one thing she doesn't think is caused by neurotoxins. Not helpful to her career. But then similarly with the environment, with the environmentalist movement, someone's also asked a question about that. And it may well be the case that human fossil fuel burning contributes to global warming, but it strikes me that there have been periods of warming and cooling in the history of earth before, and there's nothing we can do about it.