---
layout:     post
title:      Scottish Fraud
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - bio-culture
---

Are we witnessing the emergence of a pan-british ethnicity? Wales was twenty percent English. And Scotland, 10 english in 2011. Also, the migrants are likely relatively young.

So Welsh nationalism seems to be on retreat, in under retreat at the moment. One of the reasons for this is the welsh  were the only other region of the Uk to vote for brexit. So if you break the Uk. Out into those four constituent countries, it was England and wales that both voted majority to leave, or Scotland and Northern Ireland both voted majority to remain. So basically you got two out of the four regions essentially voting for brexit, which overall, summed to a majority. 

But the the interesting thing about the welsh is that there is a party in wales which you hardly ever hear about, but it actually does quite well in local elections. It's called the abolish the assembly party. The nationalism in wales is not only retreated, but it's starting to go in the opposite direction. They they actually want to start dismantling the devolved power that they have there, the welsh Assembly. There is a significant amount of support in wales. Actually, I think some polls put it into majority. But if they would have another referendum, and don't forget, when the welsh voted in 1999, or whatever it was, on devolution, the difference was point five of the percentage point in favor of having a welsh assembly. So the world should always been a bit odd when it comes to nationalism.

I think they've tried to exploit it in the same way that scots have successfully exploited it, or certain elements of a scottish ruling class essentially have successfully exploited it. But it's never quite taken off in wales, despite the extreme degrees of linguistic, sort of chauvinism they have there regarding their welsh language, which they like to have on signs everywhere. Essentially, they like to remind everyone that they speak Welsh. Yet they seem to be, they seem to be more unionist, oddly, than the scottish, none of whom speak Gaelic, absolutely, none of whom.

It was never their language. It was never their language. Gaelic is irish. That was invading. Of course, of course, it's a historical nonsense. You're right. It's like what I call ossainism, which, which is a sort of idiosyncratic term for this. The scots had this eclectic mythos. They basically were trying to assimilate these northern irish poets into their own canon. And there's this poet ocean, who turns out to have been a complete fiction. And then he was supposedly the sort of Ulster poet who came to Scotland and wrote these amazing poems and things. So I call this phenomenal ossainism, where the scots try to sort of take stuff from the irish and claim it as their own. It's odd. How do you have it?

This stealing of highland culture and heart of kilts and whatever. And highland culture is nothing to do with most scottish people. It's irrelevant to them. It's the highlands. Kilts are not even a scottish innovation. Kilts are an irish thing, northern irish.

You know the story of the kilt? You know how that was invented? It was invented by a lancashire man in the 18th century who went up into Scotland, into the highlands, to basically seek a timber fortune. And he was employing the local scots, highland scots up there. So he was talking to people who, Clan chiefs, etc, to organize labor to fell forests to do the whole silver culture thing. And he wanted to take the wood down to England and sell it. Now it turned out, back then that the scottish, the heads of families in Scotland, the chiefs, they wore these truths, which were made, not a plaid, but a bits, little squares of material cut out and then sort of sewn together to form these trues or trousers. That's what plaid was. There's never any historical associations between families and tartans. That's complete romantic tartarus nonsense. It's a historical.

But poor people, ie virtually everyone up there who wasn't a clan chief, they didn't, they didn't have enough money to make plaid trousers. So what they did is they wore these things called belted plaids, which were basically loincloths. And these things were obscene. So what happened was the lancashire man, in order to increase the decency of his labor force, created the kilt as a kind of compromise between this loincloth and more expensive pair of trousers, which was a little bit more dignified. And this led to the adoption of the kilt as a very cheap and economical garment which was much more decent and protected more of your nether regions than the belted plaid did, but wasn't as expensive as as a pair of Tartan trues. Essentially, you try to tell that's how, that's how the kilt was actually invented. 

Are you trying to tell me that the film braveheart is historically inaccurate? Is it completely. The people that Edward the first would have been fighting, would have been running around in the nude, with body paint on. Maybe with loincloths, that would have been it. They would not have been wearing kilts. Absolutely not. That was an 18th century invention. And it's interesting, because there were regiments, highland regiments in the british army in the 19th century, the beginning of the 19th century, who refused to wear the kilt, who refused to let their men wear the kilt. Said, this is not scottish. This is not traditional scotland. This is some fiction that was invented in the 18th century, became popularized in the 19th century with with scottish romantic revivalism, specifically George the Fourth, he wore a great sort of sash and the bonnet and kilt and everything. And he really made that a very central, a very central part of his identity. And he tried to guard himself in what he considered to be traditional scottish attire. And it was nothing of sort that created a fashion within victorian high society known as Tartan.