---
layout:     post
title:      Defend group selection again
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - group-selection
---

How can genes spread within the group? If the genes benefit all members equally, there must be a greater benefit to the individual or their direct kin, over the group as a whole. How is dawkins incorrect?

So this is a socio biology critique type question, right? Okay. Well basically, the issue, the, the the issue with dawkins is he conflates units and levels of selection. At no point has any group selectionist ever said that. The thing is replicated across generations is anything other than the gene. It's it's just genes at different levels of aggregation. So at the level of a group, you're dealing with a gene swarm. Essentially. You're dealing with swarms of genes which are present in individual genomes and also present in the interaction between genomes. And that is what selection is operating on. And the basic point is is that, groups option is very powerful. It's a very powerful mechanism for dry fixation genetic variants, because it oftentimes you can have very small genetic differences between groups genetic differences.

There's a thing called group heritability as well, which hardly anyone talks about, except d3 back in the 1970s. Those four differences between those groups are virtually 100 percent heritable. Heritability has been shown in multiple species, including humans. The heritability of traits between groups is has heritability values which approach unity. That means you have very, very strong selection on the distributions of genes within a group. From having intergroup competition. High heritability of that between group difference, it translates into a massive leverage effect when it comes to acting on genetic variants that might confer small fitness advantages on one group relative to another. So there's a huge multiplier effect when you start factoring groups in and you start comparing them in terms of levels of traits and calculating the heritability of the differences between the groups.