---
layout:     post
title:      Affects on sexuality of lower testosterone
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - degeneracy
 - civilizational-declension
 - mutational-sink
---

You've highlighted a link between high stress and high religiosity, in the sense that being stressed, you tend to react to that by becoming more religious. But did you know that high stress in pregnant women is linked to homosexuality? As stress lowers testosterone. Do you see us getting gayer?

As testosterone rates among men are falling. There is data on this from the Usa. I don't know if that is associated with us becoming, I'm not aware that testosterone, I'm not, I i don't know. I don't, I can't really answer that question. I don't understand what the question is talking about. Do you follow the reasoning of the the question though?

Is he trying to, to, uh, sort of connect secular trends in hormone levels with sexual orientation changes?

Yes, I'm not aware that's what causes it, though, is it? Isn't it more generically, it might be.

But one thing I will say is that there's work done by, uh, Jean twengy who looked at sexual practices, and she found a couple of interesting things, one one of which is that, apparently, people having less sex today than was the case in the 1960s. So apparently the boomers have, the millennials and the zoomers's sort of, banged the rights, I guess, by virtue of the amount of intercourse that they had relative to the amount of intercourse that our generation has per capita. The second interesting thing she found is that although younger people, so millennials, zoomers, etc, have less intercourse on average, the should we say, variance in intercourse in terms of what younger people are willing to try, is much higher. And one of the categories that she found, uh, had increased was, you know, I'm not going to say it on, but, but a certain, a certain type of sexual activity that's traditionally been found on in christian society, but in that way.

Buggery. So that has been, that is on the increase, apparently. So, yeah, buggery between men and women. I mean, like, like in into, I think, I think all sorts actually, both homo and heterosexual, that kind of intercourse. Yeah, back sex. I see. Well, I don't, but, I don't, I don't, I don't know. I don't know if it's to do with. I don't know if that would be to do testosterone levels, though. I mean, that might be a bit of post hocus pro ergo prompt hops or, I don't know if that's, I wasn't aware that testosterone is inherently associated with gayness. I thought it was, the way i've looked at this is more, it's more a kind of a syndrome, a social epistasis syndrome. So each of these things reflects the action of spiteful mutations in some ways. In the case of testosterone, it's due to the the fact that you have these sort of elite spiteful mutants that are making things more difficult for males and discouraging sort of typical, you know, gender typical behavior among men. And this leads to stress and suppressed testosterone. But at the same time, you also have this kind of proclivity towards, you know, this proclivity towards, higher variance. Don't forget, because that's one of the things that we find in the model, is that population, that's the spiteful mutation load you have. You have lots more variance in behaviors which really should not exhibit high variance in order to be optimized for the good of a group. So anything from church attendance to sort of sexual preferences would historically have been constrained, right? Also, they would have been, they would have been controlled, constrained by these, these nonspiteful mutants saying these things about, don't do them. So they would exactly with people that would have had an inclination towards um, towards a bit of slap and tickle. Then they, they, they, they would have kind of inculcated themselves using the cultural mediation hypothesis, and they would have persuaded themselves, not to, not to do such things. So, yeah, as I don't know if one could find a causal link there with levels of testosterone. 