---
layout:     post
title:      Large secondary sexual characteristics
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - life-history
---

Why do men like big booties? And secondly, as men of science, do you consider thongs on hygienic?

So, um, why do men like the big cheese? Um, first of all, um, not all men like big booties. I mean, there is, there is, this is a modern thing. It's a tradeoff, this, isn't there, between legs and breasts.

In terms of differences, I mean, obviously, the the the buttocks are a signal of health. To be able to grow this ideally shaped bottom is a signal of, presumably, genetic health. And it's a way of very conspicuously advertising your genetic health. So it's more associated, as it were, with more r selected populations as our large secondary sexual characteristics in general. As you move away from that, towards the northeast asians, that you would, you would expect greater attraction to smaller secondary sexual characteristics. And for these, and these do correlate, and I look at this in How to judge people what they look like

They do correlate those small breasts and a small bottom with with having a more agreeable and conscientious personality. Because you are moving energy away from growing large secondary sexual characteristics and towards a mind and a more attractive mind.

But to the extent that men like big booties, then I would suggest that they are r strategists, and it's a sign of the woman's genetic quality. And in terms of a sexual part of the body.