---
layout:     post
title:      Where to survive civilizational collapse
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - civilizational-declension
---

Where would you both be if civilization dropped within a day? For your own wellbeing and your children's evolutionary direction, where would you both want to be if civilization dropped within a day?

 I'll answer that with a question. And that question is, how exactly is civilization falling in this instance? Because if you think about it, it makes a lot of difference as to how you'd go about prepping for it. So if we're talking about a dysgenic sort of collapse, then the best place you really want to be is is an environment in which you can, uh, surround yourself with as many smart and capable people as possible in order to sort of stave off the very worst of it in terms of being able to have a decent micro civilization, like a little gated community, or being in a situation a bit like the mormons find themselves in some of these states, if they have these ethnic enclaves, which are normally Selfsufficient, or even a sort of Selfsufficient primitivism such as that that which characterizes the Amish way of life. Those are the sort of environments you'd want to be in.
 
 However, if the civilization was ending as a result of an asteroid hitting the earth, there's really not a lot you could do, unless you have space travel.
 
 So probably isn't going to be that one, though. It's probably going to be the first one that you said, so we need to go and become Amish. Which, i, I don't think that they're not a conversion oriented religion really. They're an introverted religion. They don't seem to take converts. They're an ethnicity really, as well as a religion. So there's a bit of a problem.