---
layout:     post
title:      Intelligent but not curious
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - big-5
---

As curiosity and intelligence, how are they related?

Well, openness to experience would be the factor of personality, which in the big five model, which for which curiosity is actually a facet and yes, that correlates with Iq at about point three or point four. So there is there is an association there.

But you'd be amazed at how many highly intelligent people there are who are completely in curious. They don't care about things around them. They're very good at problem solving, but they can't actually, they can't actually bring themselves to be interested enough in things for the sake of things. Essentially, you tend to find a lot of those people in business, unfortunately, yes.

And in Mensa, those are a different kind of people. I said Isaac Asimov, you know, the famous science fiction writer. Yeah. He reported in a prepreface to one of his books many years ago, 60s, he scored high enough to get into Mensa, which is not not that high, to be honest, 135 or something. Two and a bit sigma, basically about the mean. But he would, he managed to qualify by virtue of something or other, and he got into mensa. And he went to one meeting and just said, well, I'm not really interested in having anything more to do with these people because they are brain proud, this is the term he used for them, their brain proud. And they don't actually have accomplishments per se. They're just very proud of their iq scores. And they derive a, uh, you know, an intrinsic pecking order and an intrinsic sort of sense of worth from having this iq score, rather than having applied it to actually a furtherance of human knowledge. So he said, on that basis, I will have nothing to do with them.

The God Helmet, that guy? Michael Persinger, Well, he's obviously a very clever guy, awfully obsessive. I mean, he does nothing other than work. I mean, he's not married, and, as I understand it, and he's just obsessive. One of the things he commented on is that the people that tend to end up working at his lab doing what I would personally argue is quite fascinating. And boundary pushing research. They're not necessarily the people that get the best grades at their degree, or or or whatever. But they're, they're highly creative. They have this, this ideal combination of intelligence and creativity.

And one of the things that you find with these geniuses, okay, they have, they have high iq, normally, but it's also, it's the creative dimension to their character, the the contrarian, if you like. That's very important. So Francis Crick, for example, was rejected from Oxford or cambridge, I forget which, and, and, and went to the University of London, and he got a 2.1. So so if the the these sorts of things, Isaac knew Isaac Newton, almost failed his degree. And, his degree was done then by an oral examination, and it had to go to a second round because he performed so badly. So he almost failed his degree. So you this idea that Iq, or at least performance iq, is the is the be all, the endless or, as I mean, as is evidenced by the fact that the correlation between Iq and earnings, point three, iq and education, point five.

And you get these people that have very high iq, that are just not curious about anything, uh, they just like sorting about playing chess, God, I hate chess so much, chess, and and car and card games and very probably game of thrones and other such stuff, and and, and, and then others that, uh, that are going to just want to make loads of money, but they're not very curious, not very creative. And it's the innovators, are the ones that have that, the iq, the the optimum iq, plus this kind of personality. That's the smart faction. That's the people that get things done. That's the geniuses, or the semigeniuses, or the antigeniuses.

There's a theory called emogenesis, which was developed by David Lyken, or Lichen Lykken, who was a very famous behavior geneticist, over worked with Tom Bouchard over at a university of Missouri, Missouri University. The interesting thing about him is he was also, I think, a borderline genius, or quasi genius or what have you. What he did was he came up with this idea that there are these ways of combining traits in ways that give you not just not a sum boost per unit allele of trait. So it's not like having two copies of this variant makes you twice as smart as having one copy of a variant, having three copies makes you three times as smart, but sort of linear dose dependency. He argued that for some traits, what you have instead is you have a multiplicative relationship. So one copy of the allele gives you a certain level of the trait. Having two copies of the allele gives you four times the level of the trait. Having three copies of the allele gives you maybe 18 times. It's sort of some geometric scaling relationship. 

What he argued is you could measure this for certain rare traits like extreme creativity, leadership. He gave those as two examples. And the way to measure these is to compare the ratio of the correlation between Mz and dz twins. So this is monozygotic and dizygotic twins, so twins that share 100 of their genes, and calm and fraternal twins who share 50 of their genes in common, I'm not really twins, right? So basically what you have is, if you look at the correlation between the traits among individuals who share 50 percent of their genes, let's say it's 0.2. Among the correlation among individuals who share 100 percent of their genes, let's say it's 0.4. So you've got an approximate doubling of the power. In the case of a normal trait, where having double the number of genes gives you know, gives you two times the amount of trait. Well, for traits like leadership of likeness, findings, there might be a 0.2 association between the dz twins, among the Mz twins, there might be a 0.8 association. Having double the number of alleles makes you massively more...