---
layout:     post
title:      Guilt vs shame cultures + Celtic honour culture
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - british-ethnos
---

Why do some societies rely primarily on guilt and others on shame for social control? And why didn't honor culture develop in the Us. Deep south, but not in other states?

Honour culture developed in the deep south because they're celtic. They celtics, that's why. And, I hate to say it, but these, you know, wasp types, these anglosaxons, do not have on a culture.

Is that why the last dual that ever occurred in in Britain was in Scotland? That would not surprise me. Yeah, exactly. 

It's not a revenge culture. The celts are high on revenge. They're high on honor. They're high on, you know, perfectly and all this sort of thing. So, so, yes, any culture that's basically founded by irish scots, which the southern culture, the antebellum culture was in America, will basically be reflective of those values. Because it's the people, not the culture. It's the genotypes that are generating this honor culture. It's part of our extended phenotype.

Finland could be argued to have more of a shame culture. There's been studies on this, and the East asians.

Shaming versus guilt is interesting. It's, it's an interesting dichotomy. Is it a real dichotomy. Think about what guilt is, right? How you can use guilt to control people. Guilt's internal. You you have some ideas of yourself, and you haven't reached up to it. Whereas shame is that you're concerned what other people think. I'm very aware of that. Here in finland, they're very concerned about what other people think, much more so than in England. And there's been studies. There was a very interesting paper by someone called elaine or called shame on us. And it was about shame culture in Finland. And paralleled it with with Japan, with the shame culture is high to the extent of Harry Karry, you know, to the extent that they launched a new ship and the ship builder has a sword under his coat to kill himself, anything goes wrong.

So I would think that a shame culture would be more, um, in terms of rk strategy, though I don't know why Europe is more, guilt isn't, and the East Asia is more, and other, not just East Asia, but southern Europe, I think, is more of a shame culture than northern Europe.

Well, here's, here's one possible distinction between these groups. People high on guilt culture are very rulegoverned in their behavior. So they have this like, internal code that they follow in dealing with things, and deviation from that generates guilt. So, in other words, it's not, it's not referential. They don't need to experience that emotion in response to social feedback, or even what they abide by. And deviation from that generates this, you know, this guilt that causes a corrective action. And guilt is related to rumination, which is a sort of slow life history, manifestation of neuroticism. 

So presumably the fact that the northeast asians and the finns and whatever are shame cultures would be some sort of high K leading to weird connections issue. And in general, did you find this, the the the the the more the the less cave societies are much more best around shame. 

The question is, can you experience shame if you are disembedded from your society? So let's say you were put on to an island, right? You are Robinson Crusoe, someone who's high on shame, as opposed to guilt, would they, would they experience shame if they were just a man unto themselves, and there was no one else there around, right to sociomonitor their behavior? I see. Presumably not. But someone would guilt, high on would be right if they transgressed their internal moral code or what have you? 

I'm imagining the difference here. So, so somebody like on that, what was that? Filled with Tom Hanks where he's island, and he felt guilt through because he was mean to Wilson.