---
layout:     post
title:      Cat and Dog personalities + Personality variation
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - big-5
 - life-history
---

Are cats autistic? Greater evolutionary fitness.

I don't think they're so much autistic as they're sort of little psychopaths, aren't they? The cats? They're not like dogs. You can't sort of connect with them in any meaningful way. You know, dogs have a gfp. This is an interesting thing. It's a general factor of personality. It's kind of like the g factor that exists among various measures of personality. It's founded, it's founded dogs, but not in chimpanzees. I don't think anyone's looked for it in cats.

Yon't get in chimpanzees. There's a big two in chimpanzees. There's no correlation between them. You don't get it in orangutans. There's four group factors there. You do get it in dogs, and you do get it in humans. So it looks like it's humans, and they're domesticated. It might be one of those things, which is.

We've made them nice, we've made them nice and extrovert, and we've selected for those ones.

We've, we've bred, the bred it into dogs because it's a way of controlling them, because the GFP is our you know, is our way of impression management and being socially effective and regulating our impulses and coordinating our present social presentation, you know, being sort of monitoring presentation bias, monitoring emotions. And other people there writing this.

I'm sorry, the the more complex the animal was or its ecology was, then the the the the weaker was. That was the GFP. Because you have this, you have more personality diversity, don't you? There was a paper by, in 2001, I can't remember his name, he showed that in the in the less developed societies, you have more personalities, you have less personality diversity as a consequence of less niches.

So isn't that the case though? Um, it we did a paper on the Chin Army. Compared to westerners. The chineme are basically a huntergatherer population that live in South, South America. And the prediction we have was that actually, with the chineme, what you should have is is a more strongly correlated set of personality traits. So the gfp should come from more variants among individual, differences in the chineme personality variants, compared to westerners, who should have more weakly correlated personality traits. Yeah. The argument for this was that among western populations, that the greater, sort of, weaker intercorrelations among personality traits translate into greater degrees of behavioral specialization through a theory that I published about 10 years ago called strategic differentiation hypothesis. And this relates to life history speed. So slow life history populations are better at spotting small niches to exploit. So they need to become cognitive specialists and behavioral specialists. So the g factor is weaker among slow life history individuals. There's cognitive differentiation, a strategic differentiation among personality traits, other manifestations of behavior and conation. And this is a form of niche filling. So so sometimes there's a benefit to having a strongly correlated set of faculties, essentially. In other instances, when you're doing niche filling under a stable ecological regime, it actually makes sense to be a specialist and to allow yourself to, you know, develop more narrow and parochial sort of behavioral question there.

I mean, who clearly have these elements of autism by human standards. They can't, they can't stand noise. They're extreme and sudden movements and anything like that. They're extremely, they're quite antisocial and intolerant of each other.

And they have a low gfp. They have, they have a highly asymmetric gfp. They're high on ability. They're very low on, they're high on all the stability facets, except emotional stability, and they are, they're, they're low on most of the plasticity facets.

Okay, so mentally, sorry, cats are mentally unstable. There are, there are niches, though, aren't there, such as geniuses or whatever, in which autists can survive. That's right. So it's just a specific niche that's benefited the Cat.