---
layout:     post
title:      Birth memories
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - science
---

You mentioned you both remember being born. Research suggests that brains don't don't develop episodic memory until the age of two. Are there exceptions? It was you that talked about this.

I don't believe a word of it. I think this research is deeply, deeply, deeply, deeply, deeply flawed. That's a sort of an in joke. Um, you have to be helmut nyborg to get that. But, uh, suffice to say, I think, I think most of these people who talk about early life I think that research just is nonsense. Um, there is a huge amount we don't know about how memories are sequenced in the brain. A good example of this is lucid dreaming. Lucid dreaming, believe it or not, up until recently, was very, very controversial. There was this woman called, I think she was called abigail Greene or someone. Uh, green was her surname. I can't remember her first name. She's sort of a bit of a crazy, like, solitary genius type, but she, she was one of the people in the 1970s who made lucid dreaming a a substantive area of interest scientifically. Because prior to that, people thought lucid dreams were fake. And the consensus was that there was no such thing as lucid dreaming, and when you're in the dream state, you can't control any elements of the dreamscape or anything. But then people did these experiments following up on these very compelling anecdotes that people had collected of lucid dreaming, and they found that actually there is a distinct path in the brain activity associated with lucid dreaming, which corresponds to sort of recollected memories of the dreams today and everything. So now everybody accepts lucid dream is a real thing. So when these, these, these socalled memory experts claim that, you we don't have the capacity to form memories and things, at a certain age, I just don't believe them, because I do remember being born, and I know a lot of people who actually have memories. There is no scientific consensus on it yet, I suspect that when things advance it will become accepted that there are people who do have these weird, distal memories, like I do, and like other people do.

I remember been born, I don't even being conceived. But that's why, that's beyond me. That's too traumatic. But I do, I do, I do remember.