---
layout:     post
title:      Humans and termites are group-selected
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - group-selection
---

Is group selection only relevant for polygenic traits? What traits are groups selected in termites? 

Termites have these forms of relatedness, which, if you do the math on the actual fitness payoffs, given the level and scale of cooperation among termites, there's no way you can make it work using kin selection. So if you just work out the sort of fractional relatedness of each termite, and you try to compute the fitness, what you actually mathematics doesn't work.

And there's this whole cottage industry that's arose among sort of antigroup selectionists to try and, come up with these forms of critic relatedness which actually make the fitness payoffs look but that, you you can't do it without adding all these impartimonious assumptions to the model. So the logical, logical assumption is that actually, what's going on there is group selection, or super organism or selection? There's no, it's not genogenic selection. It's actually group selection.

So essentially, the sort of traits which which would be this would be not too dissimilar to which are found in humans, and are also likely to be basic to group selection in human populations, such as high levels of division of labor, high levels of behavioral plasticity for certain traits, high levels of cooperation and cooperative breeding as well. These sort of things essentially the ability to maintain these very large, and highly coordinated, populations, where you have very, very large numbers of individuals who are sort of working together for a common good, which termites have? They have vast colonies containing vast numbers of individuals. So termites are actually probably a better model organism for understanding the evolution of human eusociality than primates are. 

Yeah, this is what Wilson said, isn't it? That's right. He's right about that. We should be studying termites. They're more like us behavioral, behaviorally and ecologically than chimpanzees are.

I read an interesting paper the other day by somebody called Richardson. He did a computer modeling thing, and they showed that the only way you could possibly explain certain human, or in other animal, termites as well, behaviors is through the concept of group selection. They actually are, they were mathematically calculated. That's using. Was that 

Pete Richardson? A Bell K demps, cultural group selection plays in the central role explaining human cooperation. Sketch of the evidence brain behavioral sciences. Yeah, i've known pete Richardson forever. He's years and years and years. He's a great guy. He's the guy who came up the concept of culture gene coevolution.