---
layout:     post
title:      How will people use genetic engineering?
date:       2023-02-20 12:32:18
summary:
home: true
tags:
 - selection-ecology
---

Ray cattell was one of a very, very few people who realized that eugenics was doomed. And eugenics as sort of practiced by, or was practiced in many countries, but are sort of espoused by sundry eugenicists like davenport and these other individuals, It was sort of based on the idea that ultimately, societies could regulate the reproductive health of their, their populations in order to boost the sort of fitness of their populations. 

And today, eugenics is still used as a term. It's still used by various individuals, who I group into a grouping I call second wave eugenicist. So this would include sort of people like Nick Agar, George Church, Savalescu. These are people who, you know, who believe, who believe in some kind of free market, essentially, or moral human enhancement. So you make a moral, good out of human enhancement, or you create a market, which, you know, which creates through regulation, it's internal, selforganizing regulation, a mechanism for producing eugenic change of some sort or another, presumably based on buying genetic upgrades for various amounts of money, like a thousand pounds per Iq point, or something like that. 

The the problem is with this kind of liberal eugenics, which was recognized very early on by ray Cattell, in the 70s, when the liberal eugenics stuff started to sort of come to a fore, is that it can't work if your group isn't under group selection. Because if selection pressures within the group, favor the individual and favor individual level fitness, then what do you think it is that people are going to do with eugenic type technologies when they get their hands on them? They're going to use those technologies to basically to basically boost the levels of traits in their offspring that are maximally conducive to individual level reproductive success. 

So in other words, they're going to **modify traits such extroversion and sort of dominance type traits, and maybe even traits that shade into psychopathy that might make people better sort of interpersonal manipulators**. And we know that these traits work in modern societies which are under strong individual level selection. Because we know that, for example, psychopaths are over represented in certain professions like ceos. It's one in five as a clinical psychopath, whereas it's one in a hundred. And the population is at a whole. That couldn't happen under a regime of strong group selection, where the whole valencing of selection is different. 

So what cattell did was he set about trying to come up with a solution to this. And his solution was beyondism. And beyondism was meant to be like a religion. Because Gaulton himself said you'd have to kind of make a religion out of eugenics for it to work. It would have to be like a priestly caste that regulated it, did this, that and the other. So this is cattell's sort of, 80 years on, trying to sort of pick up where Gaulton left off, and trying to come up with the religion of eugenics. And he called this beyondism. 

And the idea was that you would make a faith out of the idea of human group betterment. So you were part of a biocultural experiment. And there were other biocultural experiments, and they would cooperatively compete with one another. And this process would be regulated by a kind of UN like thing, essentially. And the context was cooperative competition. So these groups were in group selection constantly. And this meant that you could have a process whereby individuals within that group are more likely to make eugenic choices when it came to genetic engineering. And he talks about that in 70s. He calls it controlled mutations, but he really means genetic engineering. And what he calls well, well controlled rhythms of genetic hybridization segregation, so bringing together certain genes and pulling them apart, in addition to just sort of the usual gamut of techniques that eugenicists have used classically to regulate fertility or promote fertility, like the Shockley plan, that sort of thing. 

But the idea is that this will be organized around the interests of the nation state or the unit, the biosocial unit that was in competition. And everything would therefore be contextualized within the context of the bigger pattern of cooperative competition that was going on. And that was essentially the basis of Beyondism, it was a religious credo, the function of which was to try and engender this kind of Camaraderie, rallying around the group, working for the greater good of the group in cooperative competition and and trying to be the best damn bio-cultural group that there was.

Because ultimately, cattell saw these groups as being the main units of darwinian selection. He saw, he envisaged a kind of group level sorting taking place, whereby the players in this great game would compete with one another, and they'd occasionally conquer each other. And if they did that, one group fell to another in competition, then that group would essentially sort of phase out the group that failed. He didn't use that word. I think that was Richard Lynn he used that word. He they would sort of phase out the group that failed in in competition. The only reason we brought this up two books, by the way, one published in the 1970s and one published in the 1990s. Beyondism a new catechism from science, was the book he published shortly before he died in the 90s.

The only reason we brought this up is because, basically, we were looking at solutions, and we sort of entered into our search for solutions fully aware of the fact that patterns of group and individual level selection, sort of oscillation between these two, is driving the eugenic and dysgenic phases of the population cycle. And when coming up with a solution, you need something that's going to be sustainable and as something is actually going to work. And we don't think that beyond is going to work, because it would require a fundamental change to the way in which we organize the character of our nations, in ways which I think would take us far outside of our tolerance zone based on our current sort of limitations as a civilization. It might have worked a long, long time ago, but not today.

And we look at other things as well, like, nurturing genius, or farming genius, by identifying them and concentrating them in, sort of hot housing them in specific areas, and networking aggressively among them to try and, stimulate innovation. And also, we look at religion, sort of reinviewing people with religion, which might be a long, long term, a more sustainable solution to the problem, insofar as periods of religious rebirth and growth and renewal tend to be, tend to be highly eugenic in the sense that they're often accompanied by a growth in, growth in the population and periods of group selection.