---
layout:     post
title:      Type 1 and type 2 group selected fitness
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - group-selection
---

Thoughts on Samir Akasha's work on evolutionary biology and rational choice theory and Findings natural selection leads to maladaptive traits because genetic traits attacking other traits equals detriment of the organism.

Akasha is a group selection theorist. So Akasha is the one who came up with the distinction between type 1 and type 2 fitness in terms of group selection. So type one, group selected fitness is basically a group selection where the where the selection is acting on traits that are reducible to individuals, like altruism. An individual can be an altruist, and the average group, the group's average altruism is a function of the average altruism of the individuals within the groups.

Type 2 fitness would be something that's not reducible to the individual, like a population. You can't be a population of one you. You are a an individual. You can only be a population if there's more than one of you. So anything that involves whole populations um where the unit is the population is a type II group fitness measure. So that's one of Okasha's contributions. 

I know some of our Kasha's other work, most of, most of Akasha's work with which I'm familiar relates to group selection specifically. I know he's done some stuff on rational choice theory. And I think, yes, I'm vaguely recalling this idea that the selection essentially can lead to maladaptive traits because of antagonism among traits.

This is very similar to the theory of what's called antagonistic plyotropy. So, this is randolph nessie's model. Um, and I think Akasha has sort of worked on similar questions. But the antagonistic pliotropy argument is that traits, traits can contradict each other in such a way that leads to the expression of two traits within a single organism, sort of counter having a deleterious effect on the organism, which might cause aging. 

So there's a theory of aging, which is based on the idea that traits expressed when you're young might be good when you're young. So a good example of this might be human growth hormone. So a lot of people say, well, human growth hormone, people stop taking human growth hormone. People, people should take human growth hormone. Because the human mature, the the pineal gland stops secreting human growth hormone. Therefore we have to compensate the deficit by taking human growth hormone, and that might keep us young forever. So there's like, a whole strain of thinking on this, but one possibility is that this is actually an antagonistic pliotrophy. So the genes which express later on in life and actually reduce the production of human growth hormone, might be causing an antagonistically pliotropic effect, right, by depriving the body of the benefits of the human growth hormone. So that might be one example of this. But yes, there are, especially as far as evolutionary theories of aging are concerned, there's probably a big role for these maladaptive trait combinations within individuals.