---
layout:     post
title:      Could the EU be adaptive
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - politics
---

If not for immigration from outside of Europe, would it be adaptive to be in an eulike super state, given the lower birth rate in southern and Eastern Europe?

Is there any situation in which the Eu? Is potentially adapted? Is there any context in which it's sort of good for you? It could be in terms of, in terms if it was a european ethnic thing, if it and we were in a situation of war with noneuropeans, or de facto war, then it would be good to put aside our internal ethnic differences and unite against the common enemy. So it could be like, now, in finland, there's often been this thing in the where finnish nationalism is based around disliking the finland swedes, until quite recently, and or the Russians, and finnish and and Sweden, and Sweden nationalism is based around trying to kind of keep above water and not be overwhelmed by the finns. So if about, if the fins, the finns united the to some extent, this put these these problems aside when they were being overwhelmed by the Russians, united is against the common enemy, as it were.

You know, like the judean people's front, and people funded Judea, and the campaign for the free galilee, and and, and. So there could be something adaptive about it. I mean, that was what people like Oswald mostly argued. He was, he was, he was pro, he was proeuropean sort of superstructure for that very reason. So it could be, yes, yeah, this is the easiest, certainly.

One one could also argue that, uh, when it was a free trade organization, which it was really up until the 1970s, it was a very good thing to be involved in. And that's one of the reasons we joined, was because it meant tariff free access to the economies of Europe, which was a huge, a free trade organization, was what we thought we got into in the first place. Um, yes, that's right. A lot of people voted in this country the First Eu. Referendum, which was in the 1970s, to join 75, what was it? 75? 80 percent or something. That was about 66. But anyway, yeah, um, the, the, the, yeah, fair off. Yeah. And all of the main, sorry, go for it. I was gon na say it was, it was only obscures like Tony Ben and Enoch Powell that were that were campaigning to leave in in 75. Everybody else, all of the, all of the even rightwing conservatives and leftwing labor, they were, they all wanted to go in. It was the far left of labor in the far right of the conservatives absorb.