---
layout:     post
title:      Genius personality traits
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genius
---

You've described genius as being selfdestructive and causing, quote, weird selflessness. Can you expand on that? 

Well, they're just, and again, there's a sort of trafficking in generalizations, but they're, it does seem to be that geniuses have this strange desire to simply give away ideas. They're sort of, what's the term Charlton uses, otherworldly. That's it. They have this sort of other worldliness about them. They're not very materialistic, so they tend to just live in this world of ideas. And they take pleasure in sort of generating new ideas and giving away ideas and things of that nature. And that's a sort of altruism.

So they're happy to not take credit for that. But they want to take credit for their work. But, often they're very shall we say, naive. Others might take credit for their work. Like, for example, the scottish engineer, anthony of Watt, after whom the unit of power is named. Apparently, he stole most of his ideas. This was the claim was made a couple of years ago. He stole them from people who, uh, you have never heard of, the engineers, other scientists who just would have given the ideas away, essentially.

And I understood Arc right? Who, to a certain extent, kind of caused the industrial revolution, really. It was a major contribution to the industrial revolution that he did. He died kind of without much money, and he didn't make much money out of it. Yes, that's right. Gregory clark, in his book farewell to arms, lists a whole bunch of these individuals, and describes them as essentially being very, very altruistic in a way which was almost sort of selfdestructive. And the names he lists are sort of names you generally don't know about, or specialist historians of science and technology might have heard of. Ordinary people, not so much. 

There is a selflessness to the genius in the sense that the genius is group selected? I suppose really they they they are acting in the interests of something other than themselves, without necessarily knowing that they are? And what really fascinates them is just the idea and the solving the problem. They don't really care about the financial side of it, or fame or anything like that. 

It's why I always get slightly irritated when people say, Stephen Hawking's a genius, because it strikes me that a genuine genius wouldn't turn themselves into a tv celebrity like that, go doing guest appearances on tv comedies and, the big bang theory and all this kind of thing. He wouldn't do. He wouldn't make himself a brand. He'd, he, he shunned the limelight.

Yes, I think you're right. I think that, uh, a lot of these, these individuals are, these geniuses, historically not very sort of fameseeking or fameoriented. And if it happens to them, then they tend to be a bit, sort of naive about it and retiring, you know, and talking about it. They don't, they don't go out of their way, like someone like Brian Cox, for example, to sort of court rather media attention. No, indeed, someone like nietzsche or whatever, kind of people that aren't even famous in their lifetimes, that are just discovered after, after they die.