---
layout:     post
title:      Sperg monasticism
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - religion
---

Could a pseudomonastic tradition be the solution for spurgs in the movement? I know this movement is as the materialistic social paradigm crumbles. 

So what could people who are asperger's kind of include themselves into a kind of monastery in order to cope with the inability of our sort of feminized, antitruth society to to cope with truth? Is that the kind of idea? I think it could be a potentially interesting idea. Although I think one of the problems with it is that asperger's is associated with autism, which in turn seems to be associated with testosterone. So you'd have all these people with high sex drives secluded together in a monastery. Ah, that seems to be a recipe for disaster.

So there needs to be a restriction on the sex rule, I think. I think these, these autistic types would have to, would probably want to have access to females. So it would have to be a very, very lax monastery. In well, I mean, there was evidence before the reformation, you did get monks and nuns who were probably kind of spergy sort of people making sexy time with each other. And those things actually happened. And there were cases of nuns becoming pregnant and all kinds of stuff. So, maybe that would be good a medieval monastic system. I a highly corrupt system that's not particularly religious, where, where, where you can get away from all the dreadful people. So I quite like the idea, actually.

And I remember discussing this very issue with him as to sort of what to do with all these people who are not really compatible with modernity. In the way that you're describing. And one of the things I proposed was that was that you you should sort of produce these refugia for them. So so they should find these little refugia like, in the ice age, you had these little areas which were untouched by the glaciers, which were very large and fertile, and you had all the animals living there, and they sort of have these little refugia. Essentially. You have the same thing with modernity. You have to find these little sort of refugia. And maybe one way of doing that would be to create a sort of monastic type community, sort of intellectual hermitage, essentially, where people can turn away from modernity and focus their minds on god, science and all that other good stuff.

How would it be funded though, this community? I mean, because the monasteries got their, got their money from donations, because people genuinely believed in their power to pray for their souls and so on.