---
layout:     post
title:      Defend Group Selection
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - group-selection
---

Greg Cochran denies the possibility of evolutionary group selection because genes don't know about groups. Defend group selection given that.

Well, it's very straightforward. Uh? Genes don't need to know about groups in order for there to be fitness playoffs due to genes cooccurring essentially within groups. So essentially, this is something that I keep stating like a broken record, but nobody seems to get this, that people who subscribe to group selection accept gene selection. They believe, more or less, the main unit of selection. So a multi-level-selectionist is like myself, is pretty much believes the same thing as Richard dawkins, who was a selfish gene selectionist? We believe that in both cases, whenever selection acts on traits, it is acting on the genetic basis of those traits. 

However, genes can be organized into phenotypes? And those phenotypes can organize into groups. So therefore, even though the unit on which selection is acting is genic or genetic, the level of organization can vary. So in other words, selection can act at different levels, whilst conserving the unit on which it acts. So even when it's acting at the group level. It's just acting at a large, at a very high level of aggregation. It is still differentiating between genes fundamentally. So genes don't need to know anything. They don't need to imagine that they're part of a greater whole or group selection to work. They just need to be aggregated into phenotypes which have been aggregated into groups. The selection to act on those aggregates at different levels of aggregation in order to cause evolution to occur. 

And and people like cochrane don't understand they don't. They conflate units and levels of selection. They don't understand Hamilton's rule. Their knowledge of the relevant biology is pisspoor and the knowledge of relevant mathematics is piss poor as well. So I would just stay away from from from their pronouncements on this. People are entitled to their own opinions, but not to their own facts. It's as simple as that.

I agree. I've never understood what their points are, particularly when there was that critique by Stephen Pinker of group selection, all he did was come up with these very, very silly points. First of all, he was poisoning the well. He talked about the false allure of group selection. So it's a fallacious poisoning the well. Then he basically said, oh, well, there's no way anyone's going to sort of sacrifice their lives, destroy their energetic interests, which you can counsel. Well, yes, clearly there's evidence that they do that. So that's, that's nonsense. Then he argued that it, it questions the fundamental darwinian model, which is based on individual selection, which you can say, so what does that mean? Just because Darwin said it's inherently right, and it can't be developed and nuanced and whatever. There seems to be absolutely no argument. Once you select, once you have it individual selection, what you might call once you have kin selection, which you clearly do, then why can't, why wouldn't you have group selections, just about an extended kinship group. 

There's also another aspect to it as well. I just want to make a more broadly philosophical point. Okay. And that is that if you are starting from the assumption of multilevel selection. So there's very few pure groups  selectionists, right? The idea that it's all group still affection. Uh. Most people, like myself, my colleagues, who work on this question, multilevel selectionists. They believe that sometimes selection occurs between groups. Sometimes selection occurs between groups made up of Kin. Sometimes it's made up of groups and genotypes which are nonidentical by descent. Sometimes it's made up of individuals. You have individual level selection. Sometimes you actually have true gene selection, although real examples of that are quite difficult to find, where both the unit and the level of selection is the gene perhaps at the level of virions or something, which, if these naked little bits of dna that float around inside of plants essentially replicating themselves. Maybe there you can, oh, you could have, you can have a situation in which the unit, yeah, you can.

This is Gauld. You know, one of the few things he got right, Gauld Lewinton, in which they talked about speech selection, it was one of the few few things that they actually got absolutely right was the idea not just specie selection. Basically, there are papers arguing for whole ecosystem level selection. So you can have entire selection. You have selection between whole ecosystems made up of fitness codependent species, which are interacting with each other in a way that yields a distinct set of assembly rules, which which differentiate one ecosystem from another, and therefore allow selection to actually differentiate between competing ecologies. And yes, you can, in theory, have competition between ecosystems.

By the way, it turns out it was way ahead of its time, because Sober and Wilson. Ds. Wilson and Elliot Sober, the philosopher of biology, actually did an experiment in which they looked at community assemblages of bacteria and show that you could, in fact, have this ecosystem level selection going on. So so there's no limit to the level at which you can have selection. The unit of selection can be extremely large. Some people who even argue that you can have selection between universes within a multiple universe. 