---
layout:     post
title:      Chinese or Indian food
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - iq
---

Suggestion to me recently, which is, could taste be diversifying as a consequence of dysgenics? So could actual, what people like to eat, taste, a sense of taste, becoming strange?

(y view of that is it would be the same as, uh, all of these sensory discrimination measures like reaction time to a simple, a simple stimulus, or a color discrimination, where the science indicates that the work of others indicates that, these, the these sort of sensory discrimination tasks, are getting worse and worse, or worse at least. So if anything, the consequence of us moving towards a dysgenic state characterized by lower g would be moving towards a state characterized by lower sensory discrimination ability, which means our tastes should actually homogenize, rather than diversify. In other words, we should prefer just bland flavored foods rather than foods which are sort of delicately spiced or flavored in some very subtle ways. 

Strong, not bland.

Because only, you know, very, very highly efficient central nervous systems will be able to really appreciate a subtle, flavor, Palette, essentially.

I, I just, I don't know if there's any, if it's ever been tested, but i, my theory is that people, that, in England, there's a kind of a divide between people that like indian food and people like chinese food. And in my experience, people like chinese food tend to be cleverer. And I i it's just, it's just my personal experience. I wonder if it's true, because chinese food is subtler an indian food is the, the, the, the hot curry after beer lads, you know. So I wonder if there's a relationship