---
layout:     post
title:      Gingers.md
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - mutations
---

Where would you, just evolutionary terms have come from?

Do you have any other it's an interesting trait. It's difficult to understand how it persists within the population, because it's one of about two things for which people explicitly avoid when it comes to choosing partners. The other one is immune complementarity. So people avoid gingers. Apparently, they disassortatively made for gingerness, and they disassortatively made for immune system compliments. So if you're, if you're saying the means to somebody else, then you won't mate with that person. You'll find them unattractive. 

It must be a mutation of some sort. It seems to be comorbid with all sorts of things like having pasty skin um and vitamin deficiencies and things. So it's probable that it's some kind of mutation. It just signals like some kind of condition or something. 

Why would it be more prevalent in Ireland? I don't know. The rate of mutation accumulation is exceeding the rate at which negative selection is weedling the mutations out through fitness, the fitness cost of those mutations, but I understand, I would guess. But Ireland has been would have been under heavier selection than England, wouldn't it? I mean, you had dreadful conditions there, and whatever, and so wouldn't you? Maybe, maybe there are advantages to being ginger under certain environments. I just don't know. I don't know enough about the, yeah, genetic correlates or the history of that trait. No one has looked and I just, I just know that people, people have avoided it. When it comes to partners. There are, there are data on that. But, yes, that is exactly even funded unattractive.