---
layout:     post
title:      Nuclear weapons under idiocracy + non meritocratic selection 
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - dysgenics
 - education
---

What do you think about nuclear weapons falling into our low iq, more violent successors hands? So the, yes, the issue of nuclear, nuclear weapons and nuclear power stations and whatever. 

Well, it's a sort of selflimiting problem, isn't it? Because if you lose the ability to maintain these weapons, they lose the, they lose some of their edge in terms of their potency as weapons of mass destruction. Because they get a nuclear weapon is only a problem, but not so much because of the nuclear warhead, but because of the fact that the warhead can be mounted on an intercontinental ballistic missile, which can then be sent to any part of the world, in under 30 minutes. So essentially, that's the problem. 

I say that the problem with the nuclear weapon is not the weapon, it's the delivery mechanism. And the delivery mechanism is, it is full of moving parts and hypogolic fuels that need replacing and other sort of, uh, important things that need, uh, you know, need fixing and maintaining regularly. And as a consequence, if you lose the ability to move these things around with any efficiency, they lose they lose their potency.

So my prediction is that in a world of dysgenics, sort of idiocracy type world, the, uh, you're basically looking at, a, at a situation in which the, um, the, the ability to inflict this sort of mass death is diminished, funnily enough, because we simply can't, you know, under those conditions, we simply wouldn't be able to get these things to where presumably they need to go in order to, you know, cause the havoc that that a warring nation would, would be desirous of inflicting on another nation. So, My view of this is really that, uh, that it's a sort of selflimiting problem.

As the nuclear reactors are a little bit more problematic, because when they fail, as you saw with Chernobyl, and I'm sure those of you have been watching this rather inaccurate, television dramatization of the events of Chernobyl,, when those go wrong, the nuclear fallout products can travel all around the world, such as in the case of Cesium135 Strontium-90, radioactive minerals, essentially, which seek the bone. They get taken up by the body, uh, in preference to things like potassium and calcium, and they get built into the bone. So you're basically irradiating your own bones from inside, which is why you get leukemia as the main cancer associated we would fall out. Because these things target bone tissue, which is where the hematopoietic cells are located.

So, that's a bigger problem if these nuclear reactors fall into disrepair, um, and the waste product, they can't be decommissioned properly. Did you know it takes 50 years to properly decommission a nuclear reactor? 

So as we become less intelligent, these various nuclear power stations are, presumably, there's more likely to be accidents, are they? Yes, yes, yeah. Because because that's the nature with Concord and with all of these things that it's little things going wrong over the moon, at the moon, little things going wrong at the low level that starts to become the problem. I don't know what iq you'd need to be a homer simpson nuclear safety technician. And this is a sort of an amusing parody of this whole process, because essentially, in the simpsons, homer is not intelligent very clearly, yet, the joke is that he's been made nuclear safety commission regulator or whatever, for the entire plant. And throughout the course of the Simpsons, there's one disaster after another, most of which can sort of trace its etiology back to something homer simpson did, like pushing a button or putting a doughnut into a cooling tower or something like that. And as a consequence, you get this very comical illustration of a process of cascading failure, the concern from simply having the wrong human capital in a critical position.

And, as people get less generally intelligent, and they're less able to improvise and come up with creative solutions to difficult problems. And they're less able to, they're less flexible in their thinking, and they're less able to to sort of really understand the problems in in such a way would lead to them being able to improvise around the problem when it happened. In the absence of an appropriate rule or regulation, yes, you're going to get these serious problems. I like to think that if, if it hadn't been for some very, very seriously intelligent people during the apollo 13 mission who were able to assist the apollo 13 astronauts in the construction of a co2 scrubber using materials that they just found in the spaceship capsule, essentially, then if we had modern, sort of rulegoverned, procedurally minded, You get sued if you break the rules. Do you think anyone would have come up with the sort of onthefly, solutions that these engineers did at Nasa in the 1960s in the 70s, rather, during the apollo 13 mission? No, they would have been, there have been a bunch of corpses floating around in the, you know, lagrange point between the earth and the moon. They'd still be there now, basically, probably doing a figure of eight orbits around the moon. You know, there's a bunch of skeletons and a capsule.

So, this is one of the huge problems that people have to sort of get to grips with falling general intelligence, is these sort of problems, which we used to take for granted in terms of argument, can not be solved, and the potential for cascading failure exponentiates as a consequence. It's a fundamental problem with meritocracy as well. Because if you think about our grandfather's generation, or whatever, then there were, there was less meritocracy. And so there were people, perhaps like my own grandfather, who were reasonably intelligent, but were working class. And so if those people were working in, let's say, a postal sorting office, and something went wrong, then there'd be somebody there who was under promoted on the basis of the fact that his family were poor, and he had to leave school at 14 in order to get a job, or his family would be eating bread and dripping every day, um, who could solve the problem. And in modern society, that kind of person has reached probably the social status that his intelligence would merit whatever. It would be, lawyer, teacher, whatever. But the point is, he's not working in a postal sorting office. And so the only people that are working in postal sorting offices are people with very low iq. And as a consequence, when my mother, a few weeks ago, albeit with quite bad handwriting, sent a package to Olu, finland, it was diverted to olula, Puntland, which is a reasonably stable area in northern Somalia that produces quite a lot of pirates. It's that level of stupidity in Nairobi, it ended up in nairobi because that's near Somalia, and somebody there was able to correctly read my mother's handwriting and deduce that it probably shouldn't be going to a miss Martha Dustin in in Somalia. so you know what I mean. So I think that's one of the problems with with meritocracy, with with cognitive stratification as Charles Murray and Hernstein noted.

That does bring us back to the point you made about, the neurotheologist, Persinger. In his from laboratory, you were telling me, and I wasn't familiar, that he had this personnel selection criteria. This is very interesting, this laboratory. It seems that he has benefited from not having a strictly meritocratic system of admissions. Instead, he's picking up more of these sort of rarer trade combinations, which don't necessarily manifest in the form of excellence at exams, but manifest in the form of excellence in terms of innovative thinking, which is a much harder thing to measure. But it's one of those things you sort of know it when you see it. It's intuitive. So it has high face validity. It kind of, it passes whatever my good colleague, Aj Figueredo, would call the intrerocular trauma test, right? It hits you right between the eyes when you see it. So essentially the, uh, having that sort of a selection criteria is very good.

That was one of the interesting things about about in in Britain, I mean, finland, you you get into a university, you do an exam, and the people that get the best marks get in. That's the system. And in England, at the top universities, of course, we have interviews and and there's a degree to which perhaps you have academic okay, now it's ballsed up by the fact that all the academics are leftists, and it's all ghastly. But 20 years ago or 30 years ago, perhaps that was what they were picking up on. And so you get situations where people, they'd say to people, okay, here's a place, and we don't care what a level results you get. You can fail your a levels as far away concern, you know, here's an offer. And then the government made them change that. And so you had a situation where people would be made and offered by Oxford or cambridge or durham, and then, and then they would bugger up the a levels, and they're not allowed to go there, even though, in the intuitive view of the academics, they're, they're good enough to go there. It's, it's a problem.

It used to be the joke, and I think cambridge in particular, still operated this system when I was uh, doing my gcses, at least, the joke was I was always, always going to be that one chap who got there. Yeah, the two E and a the fail offer, right on the a levels. The lowest grade you could get was an e below that was a fail. So they deliberately give you this offer which was just too easy. Literally, all you had to do was sneeze on the exam paper to pass it. And as a consequence, you would then be whisked away to the ivory towers to do whatever great things you I had a teacher, I had drama, an english teacher at school. That was his offer. He went for Oxford, from Pembroke College, Oxford, and he just thought, I'll do what I like then. The offer was made in the Christmas of his upper sixth. And of course, then it meant that for the rest of the sixth form, there was no incentive to do anything. He could just do what he liked. What was the point? 

I would say, what I would say with regards to that kind of an offer. What you might be looking at there is a sense on the part of cambridge at that point in time. There's obviously a completely degenerate institution now, and they don't do any of this sort of thing, but back when they were run by competent people and back when they were a quality institution, they basically would have selected individuals on that basis, on the basis of being highly selfdirected and motivated. And it could even be that you could argue that there's a tradeoff. By encouraging them to not waste their time on stupid examinations, you encourage them instead, to pursue things which are far more germane to what they will ultimately be doing at cambridge when they got there. So if a lot of these people might have been given these offers conditional upon having an extraordinarily well developed, extramural set of interests, essentially. So by freeing them up from the need to revise and swat and do all that conscientious stuff, you give them the ability to just pursue their intellectual pursuits and develop a, you know, develop an expertise base that will equip them better for when they come to cambridge. 

It's what Bruce Charlton calls the head girl type. It's the head girl type. It has to be structured, I mean, and that's one of the things that, of course, we we get this criticism that you're writing about psychology and neither do you have a psychology degree. It's that mindset, the mindset that there has to be a qualification involved. There has to be, I know somebody here who you know has a doctorate in religious studies, and she wants to become a bishop. And so she wants to do a doctorate in theology. And I'm like, well, why would you want to do that? What's the point of doing another doctorate? And surely you can read independently about theology. But no, no, she has to have, in her words, the structure, the structure of of learning things as part of a course. And that's such a nongenius way of doing things, that's such an incrementalist, frankly, girlish way of doing things, that you have to have the structure to learn as part of a course. Bugger off and read it. Those were her words, the structure of it being part of a course. High contentious.

I don't subscribe to structures. I create my own. 