---
layout:     post
title:      Does moving house speed up life history
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - life-history
---

Do you think your birthplace has meaning in your survival and longevity? Being uprooted at a vulnerable age can increase your life history? 

I don't know if if the actual, uh, act of, say, moving around or growing an unstable environment is is going to necessarily induce in you faster life history. What it might do is reinforce an underlying genetic predisposition towards faster life history as manifest. And the fact that it's clearly going to be the parents, right, who are going to be creating that instability, but unpredictability in the environment. So therefore, the instability of the environment is going to be a, a product of a gene environment covariance, right? That environments can be part of the extended phenotype of fast life history parents. So you have children who are already predisposed towards being past life history, by virtue of having a genetic disposition towards said life history strategy, growing up in an environment that's been created by fast life history parents, is actually a product of their extended phenotype. So there's some, there's a basic confounding there. So what you have to do is, you'd have to see it controlling, uh, for the parental characteristics. So holding constant the level of the trait in the parents, does that indicate that there is an additive effect of the environment, net of parental genetics on offspring life history characteristics.

Now my suspicion is, yes, there would be, because we actually have similar naturalistic and quasinaturalistic experiments in the form of menarche in young girls, so the age of which they go through puberty. It turns out that actually you can control it's we know that pubertal age has been decreasing over the years. There's some evidence it's actually under selection. But there is also some evidence to suggest that it's not just a function of the parents of the child having gone through puberty at an earlier age. You can control for that, and you can actually see the various factors in the environment of the young girl, also have an additional effect on the age at which they go through puberty. Jay Belski did a lot of research on this, and Bruce Ellis as well.

Is there any kind of consensus on why the pubertal age is declining? Well, it seems to be a mixture of two things. I mean, one, i've seen at least one paper that tried to look at, look at a polygenic score. So trying to do polygenic exploring age of menarche, and it found indications that people who are uh having children, you know, people, people who go through menarche earlier in life, tend to have larger numbers of children. Which kind of goes against the idea that there's a general selection for slow life history. So it seems like things are actually quite a bit more complex. And maybe there are some psycho behavioral life history traits that are under selection.

Couldn't it be that the manifold between the different components of K is breaking down? Yeah, that's that's how we found. That's actually what we found. Because what what we did to test this was we broke apart the uh, we actually broke apart the K factor in the Us. Population into its different bits. And each of these bits are kind of like subtest and Iq tests. You can get a g loading, right? How will each of those bits independently measures g? And some subtests are better measures of g than others. So the same vein some life history components are actually better measures of K than others. So what we were able to do is work out strength selection for each of the bits independently and then correlate that with the level of K saturation of the bits. And we actually found they were unrelated to each other. 

Moreover, we then computed the heritability of the bits. And we correlated that with the strength of selection. We found that was positively correlated. It wasn't a huge positive correlation. So it seems like the the k saturation does not um the k saturation does not uh moderate the strength of selection, which suggests that life history is being selected for a kind of idiosyncratic basis, right? It's being sort of broken to pieces. But the heritability the strength of selection, as you would expect from the previous equation, the heritability is high. We expect selection pressures to be higher as well, simply because the two are proportional.