---
layout:     post
title:      G vs S variance
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - flynn-effect
---

How does standard deviation work when it comes to narrow cognitive abilities that differ significantly from g? Sd is 15, but let's say Ashkenazi Iq was 110 and their verbal was 120 and their spatial was 95.

Well I think that with the residuals, so the specialized abilities that are controlled for g, they tend to be lower for those because there's less variance associated with those nong residuals. So the further you further down you go, the further you go down Carol's pyramid, where you have g at the top, and then you have the group factors, and then you have the sort of test specificities underneath of those. The further you go down that pyramid, the narrower those abilities become, not just in terms of criterion, but also in terms of variance. And they're less heritable as well. There's less variability periods, and there's going to be less heritability and lower standard deviations for those. 

And that's an interesting thing, because that's why the flynn effect is so big. This is something nobody's ever thought of before. Apparently I'm the first to have worked this out. But the reason the flynn effect is so big is because it's really being scaled with respect to gains on those specialized abilities where the standard dda, endogenous standard deviations are actually lower. So about 15 Iq point standard deviation applied to gains and specialized stabilities is not 15 points of g it's 15 points of specialized ability. And because the variance in those specialized abilities is lower, that means the actual absolute change in those specialized abilities is much, much smaller.

This is why, when you look at something like shortterm memory, and you look at the effect on that, the gain in Iq is is about half an iq point a decade. And that's scaled in a very specific way. It's a ratio scale measure, so it's scaled in a very sort of absolute way. So we have a very good idea what the absolute changes across generations in that ability. But on these Iq tests, which are interval scale measures, the lower level abilities give rise to these deceptive um these deceptively large gains in iq when they're scaled in terms of the uh of a standard deviation from full scale iq. So I hope that explains it.