---
layout:     post
title:      Brain aging
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - iq
---

Einstein's brain appeared much younger than his old age would suggest, due to proteins. People high in g less susceptible to agerelated g declines. Yes, yes. 

This is, this is the cognitive reserve theory. Okay, well, basically, the idea is that there's a thing called system integrity, which is the ability for physiological systems to withstand the effects of aging, like the accumulation of extracellular junk, like beta amyloid plaques, in the case of neural tissue. And this sort of resilience that tissue has reflects in, uh, yes. It reflects in a phenomenon called successful aging. So how successfully do you age cognitively? In other words, how little does your g decline over time? Because as you get older, unfortunately, over the age of, what is it 40, your g actually starts to go down. And it is your G. It's not specialized abilities. The aging effect on Iq, the decline in Iq due to aging, is a Jensen effect. It's on g so the slope on that decline is a is a strong function of your ability to sort of resist these things that damage your brain. And that means having a lot of reserve, a lot of system integrity, a lot of redundancy, etc. It's an interesting theory because, yes, you can sort of track that slope longitudinally over time with agerelated decline. And you can, you can work out when people are going to die based on that slope, and when it starts to sort of potentiate. And there's a very spooky paper published by Ian Deary many years ago, in which he looked at one particular measure of cognitive ability, simple visual reaction time. And he found that you can predict death to within five years of reaction times declining. So the latency increasing, and there's this inflection point. As soon as you hit that inflection point, and the reaction times start to sort of accelerate in terms of slowing, you end up with a, you end up with this sort of window in which you can predict death within five years. It's very creepy, right?

So, but isn't there also some idea that when people are very, very clever and they start forgetting, they start getting a cognitive decline, they have more ways of compensating for it, so they kind of cover it up better. So if they get things like outsiders, then they can have it for years and nobody notices.

That's right. Yes. That's the cognitive reserve model. So the idea is that there's a lot of, uh, redundancy within the brain, a lot of ways in which the neural architecture of the brain can essentially shortcircuit damaged or inebriated systems. Around those systems and produce a sort of functionally possible units of behavior, right? Something that looks like approximates health is a function of how intelligent you are, because it reflects things like neural plasticity, neural efficiency, etc. So it's related to a whole bunch of endogenous features of the brain, which, you know, which are, which are generally more sort of, pronounced than people with higher Iq.