---
layout:     post
title:      Pro and cons of exogamy
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - exogamy
---

What would be the pros and cons of marrying outside your ethnic group?

So the cons would be genetic similarities. So there's good evidence that when people are more generally similar to each other, they create stronger bonds. They basically love each other more. They invest more in each other. There is a certain degree to which there would be an inbreeding vigor on certain sort of traits. So less likelihood of weird combinations of genes that haven't been together for a very long time, so health in that sense.

There seems to be evidence that if you out breed by contrast, there's elevated levels the the cons of that of mental problems. Of headaches, mental instability. Out breeding, depression. So alleles that haven't been together for a very long time, being together creating unpredictable results, particularly if you have this genome, gene interaction, multiple interaction polygenic

There would be a degree of, perhaps of identity issues as well. It depends on the level of difference, the degree of difference. I mean, how different are the races? If we're talking about people that are indian who marry people that are english, those two are somewhat similar, and you might get a situation where, just by genetic chants, the child just looks english if you're talking about more distance, English and northeast asian, let's say, or english and black. 

The advantages, you're going to be less likely, if you marry out, to have double doses of harmful mutations. So if there was something like breast cancer or something like that, presumably that would be lower. This would perhaps even speed up brain functioning. Less likely to have harmful doses of these double, double doses. Under environmental selection, it might be that you would produce offspring that have some useful effects that you haven't thought of that would elevate health. In the current year your child would probably have certain advantages, so sociologically speaking. So those would be the advantages.

The jury is not out concerning whether or not there exists things like hybrid depression. We really need a global and local admixture analysis to test the presence of these things. It's quite easy to do. We just need the data. It doesn't exist for iq. By the way. Admixture and Iq are linearly associated. There's no curvilinearity there. So apparently it's dosedependent. No weird epistasis effects between populations which depress or promote iq at a certain level. 

I've been at three of these kind of political stroke academic conferences in recent months. And in all three cases, there were people there that were mixed race. And to the extent that that they could be considered to be proeuropean  they had, as it were, taken the proeuropean sort of side. It's quite interesting. And then one of them remarks to me, that you kind of have to take aside. It is a, so that's a very interesting conflict that could occur, uh, in somebody who is of what is, I believe, known as mixed heritage.