---
layout:     post
title:      Eric Kaufmann vs Kevin M debate
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - science
---

I think the almost from the kind of first principle in evolutionary psychology, I thought to myself, um, in general, according to genetic similarity theory or whatever, people tend to act in their genetic interests. And this includes acting in their interests at the level of the extended genotype, at the level of the of the ethnic group, of the of the of the ethnic you'd expect people, on average, to act in their ethnic interests. Um, people who are more ethnocentric would be more inclined to act in their ethnic interests. 

Curtis dunkle showed that a certain group are more ethnocentric, and so it would follow that they would be attracted in all areas of life, including intellectually, to ideologies that had the effect of undermining the sense of ethnocentrism among their genetic competitors. And that seemed to follow, as far as I was concerned.

And I haven't heard  Kaufmann come up with a counter argument to that, other than to say, well, look, it's Kevin is contradicting himself, because he's saying that this person's doing this, and that's, that's cultural critique. And this person is doing the opposite, and that's culture of critique.

And the the counter argument to that is to say, as you noted in a stream once, that we're this highly prosocial species with lots of different roles, and the issue is what's good for the group. And you'd expect a successful group to have optimum levels of people doing quite different things that could potentially have that, as long as done optimally, um, help the group as a whole. 

So we're going back to the the confidence mcdonald Debate sequence, which is sort of 15 papers or something, most of which were published on on researchgate. The the primary problem here is that we have a lot of verbal stuff, right? Verbal tilt. This could be true, that could be true. I don't care about any of that. I want a coherent hypothesis, and I want to see it tested. I will go where the data show. So essentially, I that's all I'm asking for, is for somebody somewhere, I don't care if it's you. I don't care if it's Kevin, I don't care if it's Nathan, I don't care if it's, if it's Hillary Clinton, I really don't care. Okay? Any one of you out there come up with a testable prediction for this and show me numbers. That's all I need. 

Because the theory is only as good as the hypothesis that it engenders. And I'm very much of a lackatoshian when it comes to science. A progressive research program is not which spends an inordinate amount of time defending its priors and defending its theoretical hardcore. A progressive research program is one which has a an adaptable meta theory. In other words, something which can absorb this confirmation through the generation of novel, preferably risky, predictions. And those predictions are of an empirical nature. They are articulated as hypotheses. In other words, they invite the acquisition of data for the purposes of verification. And once verification is forthcoming, that meta theory can then adapt to accommodate the new reality.

Now, social stasis amplification model is a theory with a very adaptive meta theory at its core. Essentially, I'm not so sure about these competitors. And I'm not saying they're wrong. It's just, in my opinion, the jury is still out in terms of whether there is substance to these, because I have yet to see the numbers. And, and this is, all I'm asking is, you know, the heavens say somebody test this properly.