---
layout:     post
title:      10,000 hour rule  Ability to practice is genetic
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genetic-determinism
---

What are your thoughts on Gladwell's ten thousand hour rule? And would doubling that number mean one would be twice as skillful at a particular occupation, or would there be a plateau?

All I can say is, um, he presented that rule as being a fatal complete. It's, it's to do with practicing ten thousand Hours. Complete ten thousand dollars, and that's it. And that's rubbish. There are, there are clearly significant genetic dimensions to various kinds of sport. If you're interested, I can look some of them up. But, but there are, there are genetic components to sporting ability. I think even he has been compelled to admit that it's rubbish. So it's, it's, I mean, the heritability of sporting ability. So what have we got here? It varies between, eccentric force of elbow flexors. There's a lot of internet thought going on today. 0.65 0.77. Maximum strength in leg extension, 046, maximum strength in leg extension 0.42. Concentric flexion. 0.65 static strength. 0.69, or 0.72. Isometric hand grip. 03, so it's clearly nonsense.

 Okay, let's, let's just, let's just look at the claim that 10 000 hours are necessary to achieve some kind of expertise. First of all, he made the number up. It's not based on science. It's based on his fee, fees, or whatever went into that, that that decision to pull that number. The second thing is, it's not only false, but it's antireality in the sense that training effects on various things are themselves highly heritable. There was a very good paper published on this by a group in Sweden. And, basically the main focus of this group was learning instruments, musical instruments. And the psychometric determinants of instrument competence. One of the things they looked at was training. And they found that the entire but yes, there was an effect of training on the the expertise. However, there was, in fact, a a very, very high level of genetic input to training itself. In other words, the training itself was highly heritable. To the degree to which you are willing to apply yourself to perfecting something is largely under genetic control. So that that shows the gladwell's argument is is totally backwards.