---
layout:     post
title:      Dance ability negatively correlates with IQ
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - iq
---

If you can be cognitively tilted, can you be tilted in regards to psychosensory, psychomotor skills, example, can someone have fast reaction time yet poor pitch discrimination?

I would have thought definitely. So, yeah, yes, surely, all over the place. Presumably there's some kind of g on psychomotor skills as well. Yes, there is. There is a g factor among them, definitely. But it's, it's not a, not a particularly strong one. So what that means is that basically, you have a, you know, a lot of opportunity to be a psycho motor specialist of some sort.

And actually there's some psychomotorlike tasks which are negatively associated with psychometric G. So it turns out that people who selfreport on the creative achievement questionnaire, this, by the way, was a one of them, one of the only useful things that Jordan Peterson ever invented was a thing called the creative achievement questionnaire, which he published in 2005, which I've used in my own research, is quite good. It just basically gets you to rate how creative you are relative to others. And it turns out that people who score very highly on creative achievement as it pertains to the domain of dance excellence. Because it's sort of broken out into 12 different domains. One of them is like dance and performance and things. People who score very highly on that actually have lower average iq. There's a negative correlation between performance on that domain and iq of negative 0.25. I've actually seen it in two studies now, and I have unpublished data confirming it as well. So it turns out people are very good at, you know, deft with their foot movements and things, are, very good of a bodily Kinesthetic aesthetic, what gardner would call bodily Kinesthetic intelligence, right? It might be one of the only one of his intelligences which genuinely isn't like the others in terms of being negatively associated with with, you know, the general factor you get among all the other multiple intelligences.

That's very interesting. People that are good at dancing are stupid.