---
layout:     post
title:      Fermi's paradox and mutational removal
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - mutational-sink
 - civilizational-declension
---

We almost reached the level of technology necessary to identify and remove deleterious mutations. So how can the seem scam be responsible for the fermi paradox? Are mutants just a fact of life? 

Well, you see, my view is that basically, if you look at mutations and their accumulation, the problem with the sort of, with the techniques that are available at the moment to edit genomes, mutations, like crispr, is not so much whether these technologies can actually do this. I think they they probably can, in fact, do this.

The issue is whether there is sufficient political will, or rather sociological impetus, to overcome what bioethicists refer to as the yuck factor, and therefore make it a viable political proposition to actually mandate screening for these mutations, or what have you, and eliminate them at source. 

The reason we think this is a good fermi paradox candidate, or fermi heart paradox candidate is because it seems that when civilizations reach a certain level, one of the necessary conditions for this is selection for extreme sort of passivity, sociologically, they become, to use Peter Frost's term, heavily pacified, which is due to a combination of selection for high g and high K. And this sort of undoes the conditions which are most conducive to the sort of continuance of eugenic trends within a population, such as high levels of intergroup conflict, that sort of thing. And populations sort of start to retreat away from this.

And of course, this breakdown of intergroup competition, coupled with innovations in hygiene and medicine, etc, leads to massively attenuated mortality. So that means you become very rapidly overwhelmed with mutations, and you lack the will to do anything about them, because you see that any action that's designed to mitigate the effects of mutations a bad thing, essentially, and you see a lot of this anti-bio, antigenetic engineering, anti-eugenics. You know, the idea of being against designer babies. The the objection to this is very much rooted, I think, in the breakdown of intergroup competition and the value relativization of different genotypes.

There's no, people just don't implicitly get that certain genotypes are bad for civilization, because they're not. They're not under conditions where where they can't be bad for civilization. They don't actually have a subtle effect on civilization. We don't actually massively curb the fitness of the group when there's no intergroup competition. And this, this process seems to seem to set the stage for a cycle in which eventually this system breaks down, and you get a sort of restarting of the process of selection, essentially. And you get this cycling. And the civilizations never get to the point where they can really bootstrap themselves up to the next level.