---
layout:     post
title:      Birth control pill and ovulatory shift hypothesis
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - life-history
---

Do you guys have any thoughts on the longterm effects of of birth control pills on women's reproductive choices?

Well, you're not supposed to use it long term, are you? Isn't that the point? My understanding is that it does alter who you're the kind of political sexually attracted to while you're on it. So presumably it could cause divorce. Because if a woman's on the pill when she meets a bloke, and she marries him, whatever, on the pill, and then she still goes off the pill, then it's going to change how she feels, which would be worrying. What do you think?

Well, this is a very controversial currently in evolutionary psychology. The big cat fight that's taking place in that field is with the so called ovulatory shift hypothesis. And this is the idea that women have different sorts of interests in men based on where they are in the cycle. So the idea is that women who are on easteros are more attracted to, sort of, maybe slightly more r selected cadlike men. Whereas women who are not on easter some more inclined towards more sort of k selected, dadlike men, essentially. And this is a sort of a longstanding prediction made by evolutionary psychologists at the moment. There's all these papers going back and forth saying, no, the effect doesn't exist. Oh, oh, yes, it does. Oh, no, it doesn't. It's like an episode of punch and Judy. And it turned out, a big paper, which was published by a very, sort of wellregarded group over at Ghana Grottogen University. Turns out there was a coding error in the paper, which meant that the entire thing is false, and that they claimed to have disproved the effect, and it turns out it was there all along. So, very embarrassing for that group. Very sloppy. But essentially the the, you know, the gist of it is there's still a lot of debate about whether there's shifting based on hormonal cycling is real. And insofar as the contraceptive pill might be a confound in these these sorts of studies, because it affects the cycling of progesterone and things like this, this is something that actually a lot of these people are talking about in these replications, is trying to control for things like this. So essentially, yes, it could do but we just don't know the data. But data are highly contradictory at the moment. And it's highly unstable. Nobody really knows what's going.