---
layout:     post
title:      Cancel culture in academia
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - cancel-culture
---

Because in the original version of that paper, which was put out online as a preprint, they cited and actually made a very big deal out of one of my papers. Because what they essentially did is replicated my analysis with their own, home brewed measure, and used that to show how it predicted all these weird traits, white, industrialized, educated, democratic, etc. And in the preprint version, they had, not only a reference to my paper, but a sort of discussion of it, sort of merits and dismerits in their opinion. However, the version that came out in science, the reference was nowhere to be found. I checked the supplement as well. And i've actually noticed this more and more with with my papers, is that I often find references to them in preprints, and then when the paper gets published, miraculously, the reference is removed. So there's this kind of cancel culture, which is, which is starting to affect scientific citation. Whereby Journal editors are now starting to tell particularly elite journals, and they're now starting to tell authors who they can and can not cite. They're making recommendations. I've actually had this myself when i've published papers, i've had, uh, reviewers and editors say, well, you should really remove that citation to Kevin Mcdonald, J Phillip Rushton, or something.

Yeah, i've heard that. I've had that. I've been told by by, I don't do it. No, I refused to do it. Told by a reviewer to remove a reference to Rushton paper. I did. And I said, why? And then, equally in my own case, there was a paper that was published on religion intelligence recently by zuckerman. And there was a section in which he discussed my research on religion and intelligence. And then he said, oh, there was this editing process. And it was, it was removed. I don't know why, you know, I wonder if there was some sort of conspiracy there as well. There was this detail, he had sent it to me, this detailed section which looked at my research, Modern Dimitri's research and also Satoshi's research, and this, and this was expunged from the from what was published, which I thought was very interesting. I have noticed this with my own research three or four times. Now, I have inside information from one or two of the editors on these journals that this practice is actually real. I'm not goning to, obviously, name names or mention journals, but I have, you know, I have, I have some spies in very high places. And, basically, yes, they, a lot of these editors operate on the policy, but you're not allowed to cite naughty people. And the idea is, it's not enough to go after intelligence researchers or sort of rogue evolutionary psychologists and destroyed their reputation. It's, it's not enough to deny them any kind of an income or any kind of a salary. It's not enough to simply destroy their livelihoods. Now you have to actually destroy their intellectual legacy, insofar as they've actually made any kind of a meaningful contribution to the discussion. So, it's complete and total unpersoning. It we are living in the most orwellian of times. We really are. And this is, I'm going to make a little statement here about this channel, right what we're doing here right now. One of the things I think, which is absolutely fantastic about this channel is we have an opportunity to openly discuss this cancel culture, essentially, in academia, as it applies to selective citation and the victimization of academics. And I think this is good, because this is how we push back against the stuff, is by bringing making people aware of it. And, a bitter moir.

I think this, we should perhaps think of writing something about this for what's that? Well, you know, that magazine? I can't remember the name, but the quillette, I think they were somewhere like that. I think that's a challenge. I thought I was alone in the world. I thought only I had ex I thought, that's visually myself and Satoshi, and he has a reputation for being controversial as well. And that was what was cut out, even though it was directly relevant to the paper. And the only other person that's seriously studying this, other than zuckerman is me. And he said, yeah, I do know your research. And I had this section. And the I said, he said he was all, he was asked to shorten the paper by removing this, this stuff. And it was quite a substantial amount as well. A detailed analysis of myself and of Kanazawa and of how ...

Well I experienced, yeah, I experienced a very early version of this um back in 2011 when I was publishing a theory paper. It was out with a very, very well regarded Apa Journal. And one of the reviewers, I know who this individual was, I'm not going to say who it was, this individual said, you have to remove all references to Rushton from that paper. So you know what I did? I really submitted it with double the number of Rushton references.

Oh, good. Yeah. No, this needs to go public. This is appalling. I i'd say, I didn't realize it was, it was anybody other than me.