---
layout:     post
title:      HEXACO and criticism of big 5
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - big-5
---

Are you familiar with the Hexaco Model of personality structure and the honest, humility factor? It seems it's just moderately related to the big five? 

The drama surrounding whether that h factor is real or not. The issue is the the h in the Hexaco Model stands for humility, Hubris. And Devri, who is the researcher of the dutch researcher who developed a of big six, as opposed to a big five, it has this Humility Hubris Factor. In addition to the big five factors, although they're renamed in slightly different ways because they're operationalized in slightly different ways.

But he basically, he argues that this h factor is the gfp. And he says that's what the gfp is. It's just the reflection of the existence of this h factor. So there is no gfp. But it turns out you can actually recover a h factor in the HEXACO. 

In 2011, I was in London at when the international society for the study of individual differences was in town. And I basically sat in on a very, very acrimonious session. They were having a symposium on the Hexaco Model. And devouring was there. Dimitri vander Linden was there. Paul Erwin was staying with his big gfp guys. Yeah, I remember, definitely got really upset. He said, we've never found the gfp in Hexaco. And I just googled V8 in Sherman Airtel Paper, where they found the gfp in the Hexaco. And found that, but Hexaco, gfp genetically correlated with emotional intelligence. Held up my computer and said, here it is. And he sort of looked at it and went, no, no. They did it wrong. They did it wrong.

So this was sort of fanaticism about these, you know, these people who promote these alternatives to the big five, or the gfp. You know, there's a lot of contentiousness and acrimony and, heatedness in the exchanges that ensue at these conferences. It's quite interesting.

I've written a paper where where they administered the hexagon to Saudi arabians. And it looks at, uh, it looks at sex differences, um, in, uh, intelligent in, sorry, in personality, uh, among Saudi arabians.  We've got this big five model now, and I'm afraid it's the only personality girl in town, really

I mean, I'm a big critic of the big five. So I think it might be five something. There could be five sort of personality factors which are infraordinate to the big two, the sort of stability, plasticity, which are also infraordinated to the gfp. But we don't know which big five they are. It might be the cattell, for example, with his 16 pf model, which decomposes, you get a gfp, you get a big two, you get a big five, and you get 16 personality factors. it's possible, that his big five, which are not the same as the koster Mcrae big five in the bfm or big five models, big five model rather, or Ffm. 

Here's an interesting story about the big five. I'll just give you a brief, sort of, very quick, potted history lesson as to why it's probably a bad model. And that is that it's a model which was contrived in such a way to generate a personality structure which corresponded to what I consider to be pre predetermined ideas about what personality should look like.

And a couple of things were done in generating the, uh, the big five model, such as producing a, uh, pool where you remove the items debris. Did this with the Hexaco model as well. They removed items that crossloaded, so that is to say, an item which would say, an extroversion item, which also loaded on two or three of the other factors to an equal extent, was removed in favor of items which just loaded more strongly on one factor than the others. So what you do there, by doing that, you actually reduce the, you actually reduce the strength of the gfp, not because you're better measuring independent or orthogonal personality factors, but because you are injecting into your item selection criteria orthogonalization. You're actually forcibly orthogonalizing these ones. 

I'm going to have consistently defined the word orthogonal. Okay. Orthogonalizing is when you make things independent of each other. So you make two things which are correlated, noncorrelated with each other. And you can do that, in the case of, say, personality dimensions, by simply windowing your items in such a way that you remove items that load across, so items which correlate with, you know, with the set of all the items, right? You remove them and you replace them, or just retain items which correlate with the smaller set, ie, those that correspond to specific dimensions. Yeah. So that's the first thing that happened.

The other thing that happened was sex differences. Oh, good. You know, the big five don't actually show very big sex differences because, again, Koster and Mccrae, when they were constructing the big five, removed sex difference loading items, or items that showed a big sex difference, they actually took them out. So they neuted the big five literally, they neuted it. So is that, why they they don't find a sex difference in conscientiousness. 

But when you get down to the facet level, you're looking at, so you're looking at a different sort of item selection and retention procedure um. And really what you're dealing with is is a situation in which these personality I these personality inventories, are, to a large extent, contrived. Right? Okay, good. That's a problem. That. That is a problem.

Now, I think there is a big five, okay? Because ethologists who study the personality structure of primates find a big five very consistently. It's just a different big five. You know, Kevin Macdonald, okay, has, in my opinion, a very, very solid model of an alternative to the big five model. He has this idea, he's been pushing it for years and years and years. And it's based on the idea that if you, if you apply these rotations, it's a statistical procedure, you it's called rotation. I won't go into why, why it matters, or what it does. And you apply these rotations to two of the dimensions of the big five, so extroversion and agreeableness, and you do what's called an oblong rotation. You don't break, you don't orthogonalize, you just, you just partially orthogonalize them. And what you get are these two alternative personality factors arising, which are more similar to the personality factors you find in chimpanzees.

So instead of agreeableness and extroversion, you get like a warmth affiliation factor, and you get dominance or adventuresomeness factor, which Kevin has argued, and I think he's right about this, more evolutionarily informed. Now, what Kevin hasn't done because he doesn't believe in the gfp. Well, he does because he thinks it's like a phylogenetic inertia artifact. What Kevin needs to do is take personality structure and look at the gfp. My prediction is that it would probably half again, the amount of variance explained across the set of all the dimensions. Yeah, if you look to the gfp, using that particular structure.