---
layout:     post
title:      Getting tenure
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - cancel-culture
---

Documentary. Yeah. Any advice for tenure track? And once tenure, what's the best way for individuals to push free speech in the Us? Academy without being guilty?

Yes, my advice to any track is to publish nothing interesting, to be an incrementalist, and to simply get something someone else has written and add a little bit on the end, but do it in such pretentious, deep sounding language that you managed to get it published in, in a journal with a reasonable impact factor.

Is that not what Socal did? Well, that those journals didn't have a reasonable impact factor, but, okay, yes, it is kind of what he did. Yes, yeah. It depends what circle published in social texts, which is the Universe Duke University press published elite, super postmodern studies.

Okay, well, right. So, well, yeah, if your area is something of ghastly, like postnormal studies, then it's going to be much easier for you as a person? Who don't realize what nonsense is to get tenure track. I have actually written up a spoof article, and it was published, and it was published in a reasonably good anthropology journal. And i've not yet said what article that is. And I'm i'm waiting for somebody to to to work out, because it's a spoof. Years ago, I published it, nobody, everyone just thinks it was just, you know, because it's such nonsense that published anthropology these days.

So do that anyway. So get stuff other people have written, add a little bit on the end and make it sound deep. And as we're pushing free speech in the American Academy without being guillotined. Well, as we discussed in a previous episode, I mean, we think that university is likely to contract, and so I think things are going to change.