---
layout:     post
title:      Cause of declining sperm quality
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - social-epistasis
---

Could corticosteroids improve sperm steroids? Corticosteroids. Okay, I don't even know what it means. So anyway, our improved sperm quality suggests the generational decline in sperm quality is the result of environmental inflammation. 

This is the thing. I think that the corticosteroids are stress hormones. They're steroids, which are the, the hormones which are part of the body's stress reactivity systems. Body synthesizes these things when it's, uh, when it's very stressed. They're generally associated with inflammation. Now, they're great for when you're really stressed, because they help prepare your body for psychological and physical stress. But their effects on your body are not good. They can shorten life expectancy. They can accelerate aging. They can cause all sorts of problems. I'm sure one of them is is affecting sperm concentration, motility, quality.

I don't with regards to declining sperm quality, it seems to be the case that a lot of the decline in sperm quality relates quite strongly to other measures of dropping fitness in where in the Us, population where we have good data on this, going back to the 1930s. So this would include total fertility rates, sort of the overall share of the world's population made up by people from the Us. This would be sort of group selected level fitness. And the thing that causes this decline seems to be a bunch of things related to negative social epistasis. So it seems to relate to things like increases in depression. You could say there's a depression inflammation link, because there is an inflammatory theory of depression, first developed by Bruce Charlton, now it's sort of coming back into vogue. There's also sort of various, uh, psycho behavioral abnormalities related to sort of psychopathic, deviated behavior, and the spread of things like atheism as well. Religiosity being strike quite strongly connected to fertility overall. Where it's dropping, fertility drops as well. And this might also reflect in declining sperm concentration. So social epistasis would seem to be the best supported model for explaining the decline in not just sperm concentration, and motility and other quality indicators, but other fitness as well. Relate to inflammation, but it could also relate to other factors, like epigenetic changes arising from the influence of spiteful mutations emanating from elite, elite values being sort of imposed top down on people.