---
layout:     post
title:      Homeoresis
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - white-death
---

I'm sort of more of an optimist. I don't actually imagine western countries as a whole going down that road. I think that, uh, I think you're already starting to see the beginnings of a sort of political phase transition taking place in many western countries. And a subtext to a lot of what's going on in places like America and Britain, in the case of brexit, and of course, Continental Europe. A big subtext of this is, you know, is the idea of wither whites essentially, what's going to happen to them, and whether they have legitimate ethnic interests in the context of a multicultural society in which everyone seems to be encouraged to have ethnic interests, except whites.

I like, the distinction between implicit and explicit identities. And I think a lot of what's going on at the moment is is implicit whiteness. So a lot of, I think, the left or right actually to point this out. They see it in a lot of these political movements. And I think it's there. I think it really is. But it's implicit. It's a lot of white people running around, organizing their political activity around candidates or principles or ideas without actually stating or trying to articulate uh their position from the sort of reference point of whiteness. They say, no, it's civic nationalism. Oh, it's independence of sovereignty, or, taking back the nation state from the globalists, etc. 

But the the reality is that that's already a big difference. If you compare the way the world is today to the way the world was, say, 10 years ago, the sort of conversations people have in political spaces would be unimaginable as recently as 10 years ago. And the fact that those conversations are happening, and the fact that, the fact that that things don't seem to show any signs of meaningfully stopping. There's just, there's some indications of resistance in certain quarters, but that's sort of being worn down. And, there's a general sort of sense that things are moving in an antiglobalist direction. It's sort of inevitable that the system is going to change in such a way will probably counteract some of the worst aspects of what could be a collision with complete demographic replacement. Essentially, these doomsday sort of scenarios a lot of people like to, like to talk about. I see within the present sort of system of social organization a lot of intrinsic resistance and a lot of resilience and a lot of ways in which it can change in a way which will, you know, which will lead to just different forms of politics and different forms of identity and different forms of of social being, essentially, without there actually having to be any kind of unpleasantness, essentially.

But think even over the last 20 years, how much democracy and free speech have been restricted. You're right, but also look at the way in which the individuals who were sort of originally gradually eroding democracy, breaking it down, chipping it away, replacing sort of nationstatebased democratic institutions with what you could call transnational sovereignty, pooling arrangements both formal and informal levels. So in the form super nations like the Eu, or at the informal level, through some corporate globalism, ie Google, Facebook, etc. Look at the resistance that those people are getting. They're not having an easy time. I would not like to be there. If I had to pick a side that's very likely to lose in the next 10, 15, 20 years, I would, I would pick their side.

Particularly as well, when you consider that the boomer generation, these things that made life wonderful for them, a job for life, never having to bother with job interviews, really, you just got a job. Life was very easy for them, except in their children childhood. And those things that give people certainty and get make people decadent, really are going. And we're in almost, an r strategy situation of individuals competing.

Here's the thing, within any complex social ecology, there exists alternative, stable states. And what usually happens is when something gets overly complex, or it's overly burdened with free riders or what have you, what usually happens is that system breaks down. It doesn't collapse. It just switches or flips to alternative stable states.

Now Linmart Gullis, who's a very famous biologist who won a Nobel Prize for her work on endosymbiosis. That's the theory that allows you, but that's the theory the origin of plastics, like chloroplasts and Mitochondria. The idea they were once free living organisms that entered into an endosymbiotic relationship with other free living organisms. Essentially, that's why dna so she had this concept, which she called homeorhesis, as opposed to homeostasis. So homeostasis is when the system returns to its original condition, like the body. The body needs to be the constant temperature. So if you get too cold or too hot, you shiver or you sweat, and you restore your temperature, you always go back to the same set point.

Homeoresis is a system which returns to an alternative stable stage, which is not necessarily the same as the original stable state. So for example, for a long time, Britain was totally okay with being part of the Eu. Now it's going to leave the Eu, and in so doing, it'll shift. It will not go back to where it was in the 90s when it had fully Eu. Membership. It'll move to another position. It'll switch to an alternative, stable state. And that transition gives you an idea of how these systems work. They can track alternative, stable equilibria. And there will be alternative stable equilibria, which I believe would be much, much better for, particularly indigenous people in western countries in the long run, and will also in many ways, reflect what is best about western culture in western values, rather than, you know, taking us down a dark path, or what have you. 

Okay, well, you're more, you're more optimistic than me. I i think it's your term. I'm more optimistic. In the long term, I'm not, because in the long term, I see civilizational declension as being an inevitability. But I do see it, we've talked about this, but that that will, that will lead, that will lead, though to the extent that the europeans survive, that will lead to a rise up again. I think be, people will be pushed to a point where there'll be some kind of backlash against the destruction of their genetic interests