---
layout:     post
title:      What is meant by Autism
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - psychopathology
---

How can one be high in autistic traits, about being autistic? Where is the line drawn? Is it just low high agreeableness? 

This is part of the problem I have with autism per se. I'd much rather talk about this as what I call deep social learning disorder, which I believe undercuts a huge range of psychosexual and social dysfunctions. That all relate to this sort of defective vocal learning. This is a topic i've been writing about recently, that autism is just one of what we call. Autism is just one manifestation of this. And there are lots of there are lots of Continua which bisect autism, which can lead to very different manifestations, despite possibly these individuals carrying common variants or common mutations. For example, Steve talks about high low agreeableness. Yes, I'm sure autists come in both some high and low agreeableness flavors. Another one, of course, is high functioning, low functioning. The socalled asperger's syndrome, might be associated with high iq, whereas sort of standard autism might be associated with uh, with low iq. And may indeed be a sort of diagnostic substitution for socalled retardation or intellectual disability. In fact, if you look at the correlation in time between diagnosis of intellectual disability and autism, there's a virtually perfectly negative correlation between the two. I actually have some data on that, which would be consistent with diagnostic switching essentially people, although doctors don't want to tell the mother that the child is mentally is mentally disabled or intellectually disabled. Instead, the mother needs to hear that the child is a little einstein. So therefore gets told that he's autistic instead. So that's what I mean by diagnostic switching. 