---
layout:     post
title:      Conservatism + Eric Kaufmann Whiteshift
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - white-death
---

Are conservatives with a capital c just hiding and or suppressing innate, ethnocentric and racism in group preferences the far right embraces?

Well, I i suppose they're using the word conservative with a capital C. So I assume by that you mean members of you of the conservative party in in the Uk. And obviously, there's no hard and fast line between being, between being a person that supports the conservative party, and being as a person that supports, let's say, the Uk. Independence Party, which would be considered more nationalistic and ethnocentric, and then being even further to the right of that. When I was involved in the conservative party when I was a teenager, a lot of people voted for the Uk Independence Party. I remember the european Elections 99, which was the first election I voted in, I voted for the Uk Independence Party, and so did a lot of people on the wall the conservative war committee that I was the deputy chairman of at the time. So so there's no hard and fast sort of line. It's a spectrum of opinion. And I would say that it definitely crosses over, uh, with ethnocentrism, yeah. And probably there is a degree to which most conservatives are, um, at least at the party membership level, are ethnocentric and to Europe, antiimmigration and whatever. But they've been kind of, the leadership of the party is way to the left of them, and so there is an attempt to suppress these kinds of ideas, because there is a feeling that you're more likely to be elected if you're more moderate. But I think that's the general feeling of the conservative party in much the same way that the labour leadership used to be way to the right of a lot of the people that were in the Labour party, and that their inherent socialism and jealousy and whatever would be, would be suppressed. What do you think?

Well, I think that the, if you look at the history of conservatism, a lot of people, a lot of more in intellectually oriented people on the right make the observation that conservatism as a ideology is, ideologically speaking, it's a mile wide and an inch deep. It's extremely shallow. They have virtually nothing. They have sort of edmund Burke, William Buckley, I suppose, founder of a national review, who's the first to really disadvantage services from its from what you could call its ethnopolitical, component, essentially, which, which has always been part of the right up until the 1960s. And this is, you know, an attempt by buckley to sort of push for respectability, essentially, or to align conservatism more with the interests of the new left, um, in order to make it electable. You know, this was his idea, was by making it focus on economic matters, And sort of essentially seeding ground on the cultural war to the left, it would make it essentially more electable. But then you have these sort of neoconservative thinkers who were not not particularly intellectual. Didn't really add anything to the corpus. The people like Strauss, who who's the sort o my opinion is an intellectual con man. I don't think he, I think he was just a sort of word Salad artist, sort of Jordan Peterson type person. Didn't really add anything.

But what can, what seems to be happening to conservatism today is that whether the establishment conservatives, like it or not, the majority of people in the country who identify as conservative, indeed a number who would even vote for parties like labor in Britain, for example, are pulling the political center of gravity back towards the right, back towards where it might have been prior to the 1960s, when there was a sort of, you know, at least a tacit, sort of ethnopolitical component to socalled conservative politics. And that phenomenon seems to be present across all of european history. So all of the european sort of nations. At the moment, of course, in America with the election of Trump. But you see it in Spain recently, of a Vox party wants it storming to third place or something. It got something like 21 seats. It doubled its vote in the space of just two years or something. Is absolutely incredible. And that party will probably be in a position to negotiate the dynamics of the coalition when this inevitable shit show that is the spanish parliament falls to pieces. So it's, it's positioning itself to be, you know, to be in a very powerful position.

And actually, there's a chap called Kaufman. He wrote a book called white shift. Yeah, he's getting in trouble for writing it, but it's a very, very good book. And he's not, he's not a, sort of, he's not altright, he's not a white nationalist or anything. But what he is is, he's a sort of an academic. I think he's based at lse is it or ucl one of the University of London, one of the top University of London schools. And he is, he wrote this book, and it's for sale. It was barnes and noble and local, local to me. It was there. I've, you know, sitting on my shelf. And and it makes several reason points about why, in the future, it will be necessary to accommodate sort of white ethnic interests in in, you know, a broad, sort of populist, brightest platform. And failure to do this does not bode well for the establishment. And that's basically the position he puts forwards, with loads and loads of graphs and figures and things to back up his point. And, you know, it's so jolly reasonable.

He's one of a few academics I know of who actually takes the time to disentangle positive from negative ethnocentrism. This is very central to his thesis. And and he's a, you know, he sort of, in my opinion, his his views reflect, he is prescient in that he's probably projecting out to the 2030s, 2040s, when a lot of what he's saying now will be mainstream conservative it is exaggerated.

Extraordinary thing what people of my association were saying in right now magazine in 2003, which was so out there that Ian Duncan Smith, or 2001, sorry, so out there that Ian Duncan Smith had to distance himself from that magazine because there were a number of conservative party members that were involved in that magazine, senior members, Teddy Taylor, people like this, is now mainstream politics. It's mainstream. So it's, it's taken sort of 16 years, it's mainstream.