---
layout:     post
title:      Kevin's work and Social Epistasis Amplification model
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - social-epistasis
---

Does your maladaptive antigenius theory, suffer from the fact that most feminists are of a specific out group? Dwarkin, Navy Wolf, Gloria Steinem Emma Goldman, Robin Morgan, Et cetera. So that most feminists are jewish.

Is that a problem with the antigenius theory? Well, I mean all of these different groups will be sensitive to picking up these spiteful mutations. It's really a function of the degree to which the group has been under relaxed negative selection for mutations.

The thing about the spiteful mutation theory versus this other theory that the speaker is alluding to, and I know which theory he's talking about, is that theory can't explain, for example, the rise of, socalled sexual herbivory in Japan. Why you get, for example, these no sexual, habitually hikikomori neural culture. 

These young males who have literally adopted a sort of voluntary celibacy. They're sort of vol-cells because they get everything they need off the internet, essentially. And they've withdrawn completely from a mating market. And they've become completely sterile, essentially to the point where the females, a bit like in the mouse utopia experiments of carl boon, the female mice have to actually, if a female japanese in this instance, have to actually pester them for sex. They have to make the advances, uh, which is not the typical role of division of labor in terms of the courting market. The male makes the advances in the female, then chooses from among prospective suitors.

This highly abnormal situation in Japan is where you have females now competing for male attention and affections. So you have all these cultures which clearly did not follow a cultural trajectory outlined in the culture of critique, which have yet adopted these value systems in so doing, have undergone these sort of population declensions, these massive declines in population size.

So so essentially, the theory that that is being alluded to here does not generalize across cultures to the same extent that the social epistasis amplification model generalizes across cultures. So I think that the social epistasis amplification model yields a far more, easily testable, much more generalizable and much more intrinsically valid model to explain these civilizational shifts. And yes, insofar as you might get a predisposition towards certain members of certain groups being attracted to certain classes of ideas, this could simply be a function of differential legacies of purifying selection. I don't know. But we have to take a look, basically, and see what's going on at the level of the genetics. Unfortunately, we're a long way away from being able to actually do that sort of deep sequencing necessary to track the rise of these fairly, uh, small sort of variants with with relatively modest effects on the phenotype, that might cumulatively have large, or antagonistically, epistatic effects.

There's a very good book, by the way, which i'd recommend. It's by a guy called kondrashev. And, the book is called, I think it's called crumbling genome. Okay, so if anybody wants to really understand more about the challenges that face research into the accumulation of deleterious mutations, especially with regards to looking at the counts of mutations in postindustrial populations, you might only have had 10 generations, let's say, then you want to look at, you want to look at this book. It's written by an absolute titan in the field of, Titan in the field of population genetics. And it's a very, very good book, and it's written for a popular audience. And yes, he comes to the conclusion that mutations are building up. These are, these mutations are likely producing medical, psychobehavioral changes in populations. And the best way to track them is the way that we do in our research, which is via the use of phenotypes like measures of developmental stability that change over time. So we, as you know, have put out a paper on sinistrality and how that might be related to small declines in Iq due to mutation accumulation. There are other phenotypes like that which can be used, and indeed we have used in other of our work to track the changes in population load. 

I would say that there has been no real sort of quality, evaluation of the the claims that Kevin is making at the level of empirical analysis. I do not think the coffnis article met made the grade. In my opinion. It was, it was not a good article. There's no such thing as default hypotheses. For example, you only have multiple working hypotheses in science. So this idea that such a thing as a default hypothesis is garbage. 

But, beside that. Beside what I would like to see done with Kevin's work at a purely empirical level is for somebody to devise a proper test of it. Because Kevin's work is, is very verbally tilted. It's historiographic in nature. It's based on case studies and case studies. And this leads you into the weeds, because you can then debate whether this actually happened, or that actually actually happened. But basically, Nathan is also very verbally tilted. He's a philosopher, so he likes to attack things at that sort of a level. And this is why I don't think that debate between them really went anywhere, because neither of them were proposing methods to actually test the claims made in the thesis.

Whereas with the social epistasis amplification model which I maintain is a different model, which makes different predictions, which which I think explain is a better explanation for the trends which are manifest. Essentially, we have gone out of our way from the getgo to make empirical prediction after empirical prediction after empirical prediction, I'll give you an example of this. 

We just successfully tested an entirely new risky prediction of the scene seam. You've heard about acronym before, social epistasis amplification model. We have found, remember some of you a couple of couple of months ago when I was on one of these streams, very interested in the discussion that I had about tilt factors among the moral foundations. You have this sort of individualizing factor, which is made up of all obesity and fairness and harm avoidance and all that sort of thing. And then you have this binding factor, which is all the group selection stuff, authority, purity, loyalty.

So what we've done is we, I developed a new method for tracking the shift in the tilt in these moral foundations across time, using Google Engram viewer. That the entire effect of group selection on the change in the patterns of the moral foundations, from more sort of high binding to high individualizing moral foundations, can be explained by the mediating role of developmental stability. So in other words, the entire impact of changing group selection on the normative structure of our populations can be explained by the accumulation of deleterious mutations, not 50 of it, not 75 of it, but 100 of it. And to my mind, that doesn't leave a lot of room for alternative, competing hypotheses. So essentially what we have there is a really, really solid test.

All of these values, which have shifted over time from sort of more right wing to more left wing, more, you know, binding, group selected oriented to more individualizing, individually selected oriented. The entire impact of the change in patterns of group selection is mediated by this latent factor of developmental stability. So this is a we've got really, really strong evidence for for the social epistasis amplification model. Now we we have the evidence is really just absolutely beautiful. It's a theory which is just yielding testable prediction after testable prediction.