---
layout:     post
title:      Two kinds of mutation load
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - mutations
---

There's two kinds of mutation load. There's De novo load. So this is basically the loads of mutations which arise spontaneously due to mutations in the course of gametogenesis, which occur in male sperm cells at a rate of about one and a half mutations per year of advanced paternal age, per diploid genotype, essentially. So per Zygote, they're going to get one and a half additional mutations per year of advanced eternal age. So basically, a man aged, I don't know, in his mid30s, so my age, essentially would be producing on average something like, each sperm would have on average something like, 30 to 50 de Novo mutations, and it just sort of increases exponentially from there on out. 

Women also, the eggs, accumulate mutations, but to a much, much lower extent. It's more like a quarter of a rate per year, sort of diploid genotypes. There's a little little bit of a maternal age effect on the nervous mutations.

There's a second kind of load, and I think this is associated with sort of more closely related to the question. And this is the idea of what's known as legacy load. So this is the load of mutations that have not been removed from the genome, which persist by virtue of resistivity, or simply because these mutations insert by, insofar as they actually cause disease or reduce cognitive ability or something, they don't reduce it enough under current, relaxed, purifying conditions to compromise fitness. In other words, the costs are being removed, so they just persist across for generations and build up and up and up. So that's legacy load.

So you kind of get two things. It's not just the new mutations, but also the historical legacy of mutations, which, you know, which come across as a function of the buildup of mutation, that the buildup of mutations over generations. 

Well, the Spartans solution was to get any child, any baby that was a boy that looks remedically old, and take it to a cliff called, called coyote. Well, that's the thing with the Spartans, the only information you have about from their enemies. They didn't write much. History is written by the victors. You know, this could be a sort of victor's history of the Spartans. This is like a distinction between pedro the cruel and pedro the great, you know, the spanish monarch. It really depends on whose side you were in that war as to what label you use.