---
layout:     post
title:      Sermon on the mount
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - social-epistasis
---

Social epistasis describes a theory about how genes present in one individual can affect the way in which behaviors develop in other individuals. So epistasis is a term which describes the tendency, through a gene in one part of a genome, to influence, through its gene products, the level of expression of another gene in the in another part of the genome. So a good example of this, actually, is from a work of Gregor Mendel. He's the first person to notice this. And he found that there were certain alleles which had to be coinherited in plants in order to produce plants which had white flowers versus purple flowers. It wasn't enough to have the p alley or the allele for purple flower coloration. There had to be another allele coinherited with the p allele in order to express the purple allele. And that interaction between those alleles is called an epistasis.

So what do we mean by social epistasis? Well, social epistasis is simply extending this tendency for genes to sort of engage in this crosstalk within the genome to genes located in different organisms. And it turns out that a lot of the way in which you developis under genetic control. We've known this for years, because a lot of these sources of individual differences, like intelligence and personality and so on and so forth, are heritable.

But it turns out that for some of these traits, particularly these behavioral traits, some of that heritability is not heritability that exists in the variability among individuals. It's heritability which exists, if you like, in the broader pattern of genetic interactions which take place among individuals or between individuals. So at its most simple level, a social epistatic transaction occurs when an individual has a particular gene, and via an interaction with a social partner, they can change the patterns of gene expression in their social partner in ways which have very farreaching consequences for the fitness of those social partners. Because the fitness of those social partners is, no, is not necessarily purely a function of their own endogenous genetic variation, but also due to this added layer of genetic interactions that take place between individuals. So that's, that is social epistasis. 

The term was coined in 2007 by an entomologist called linksphia, in relation to understanding how casts, different castes, feeder casts, worker casts, how the feeder casts in ant colonies, can actually steer the development of workers in different directions by different sort of allocations of food to them. And this process is a kind of gene gene interaction, which, you know, triggers different developmental trajectories among the workarounds.

So my understanding then is that we humans are, compared to other animals, compared to more primitive animals, are particularly environmentally plastic. So we're particularly influnced strongly by our environment. And therefore, if the environment isn't optimal, we're in serious trouble. Is that right?

Well, it depends what you mean by environment, because one of the things that we're starting to learn,  well, rather, we people who are studying social epistasis and more broadly, indirect genetic effects, which is the broader class of effects under which social epistasis is subsumed. Essentially, what people are starting to learn is that a lot of what we consider to be environmentality, and some of what we even consider to be heritability, is, in fact, this indirect genetic effect. So what it suggests is that the social environment is more than just an environment. It's like an extended genotype. So an individual organism is embedded within this extended genotype, and as they develop, they interact with their social partners in this social genotype. And depending on how they interact with those social partners, and the sort of genetic variants they may come into contact with in other members of their extended phenotype, those determine a certain percentage of the variability of how these individuals actually develop. So it gets us away from this false dichotomy between genes and environment.

Now, the social epistasis amplification model is based on the idea that, now that we've established that some of the apparent genetic and environmental variation among individuals is actually due to the way in which they engage in these sort of epistatic gene gene transactions between organisms, where the genes present in one organism affect the development of a phenotype in another organism through their effects on patterns of gene expression in that other organism. Now I've established that that's a real thing, and that's actually part of the matrix of forces which influence development among social species. We can also posit the existence of a novel mechanism through which these  social epistatic pathways give rise to a significant degree of vulnerability.

They confer a lot of vulnerability to a population because mutations which exist within individuals are often thought to affect the fitness of the individuals that they carry, and only the fitness of the individuals that they carry, right? So you carry a a burden of deleterious mutations which you picked up from your mother and your father, and there's a certain legacy load which came in from their ancestors and so on and so forth. These are unpurged mutations, which are typically recessive and typically have very weak negative effects on your phenotype. So as a consequence, they build up and up and up in the absence of strong purifying selection. 

Just to make it clear, this is since the industrial revolution. The severity of selection has markedly decreased from significantly deeper percentage. Has decreased from 40 child mortality to, what about one percent today? A good way of looking at it is to look at the probability of a randomly selected individual being able to fully participate in the reproduction of the next generation. And to estimate this, we have a parameter that was developed by a very brilliant researcher called Marche Henneberg, who is an anthropologist, uh, formerly based in Australia. I believe he is now in switzerland. He moved faculty recently. He developed a measure called the index of the index of biological state. And a hundred percent on the index of biological state, and that means that a hundred percent of individuals can, in theory, fully contribute to the reproduction of the next generation. Now, nobody has a hundred percent, right? But a lot of modern populations come very close. They have values in the high 90s. So in the case of Britain, I think the value is 0.98. That means that, all else being equal, a randomly selected british person today has a 98 chance of being able to fully participate in a reproduction of the next generation.

Historically, the index of biological state, going back now to 3 000 years ago, was 30 percent or 03. So that means a randomly selected individual had a 30 percent chance of being able to fully participate in the reproduction of the next generation. What that means is that 30 percent of the population would be able to go on and produce 100 percent of the offspring right at birth. Well that was the probability of making it to a point at which they can reproduce. So you think of it like a hurdling model. They have to get over various hurdles. So they have to, there's very high infant mortality, very high perinatal and prenatal mortality. Very high childhood mortality, which is as high as 50 percent historically in places like Sweden and France. In the you know, the 17th and 16th centuries, um, you have a lot of, uh, mortality due to violence, for example, a lot of mortality due to disease. A lot of the fraction that actually made it through the selective filters, would have had something wrong with them which would have precluded them from being able to procreate. They would, I would have been sexually selected against. So when you add up all of these filters, you can estimate the likelihood of those individuals being able to participate. 

Now, in reality, having an index of biological state value of, say, 0.98, does not mean that 98 of your population are going to fully participate in the reproduction of the next generation. We know that in reality, 20 percent of the population of western countries go childless. So what it is, it's simply telling you that, all else being equal, setting aside lifestyle choices, setting aside, easterlin hypothesis. So this is the idea of trading fertility against, against opportunities for increased exposure to education, or earning power, taking those things out of the equation. We should be in a situation where the vast majority of people can fully participate in reproduction. The reality is it's about 80 percent of the population historically. That is still astonishingly high, as you just said. So it's 40 percent of the population.

So the the implication that is is a considerable rise in genes which would have been selected out under conditions of stronger darwinian selection before the industrial revenue, stronger purifying or negative selection. This is specifically selection which weeds out deleterious variants. Now, the other thing we have to sort of keep in mind here is a given allele which causes some minor medical abnormality or loss of function, or causes some kind of impairment, like, say, myopia or asthma, or or even causes a disease like, say, type 1 or type 2 diabetes, or even cancer in late life. The costs to having these mutations are very different today to what would have been the case in the middle ages, where being an asthmatic child would probably have put you at a very, very significant fitness disadvantage, given the amount of physical activity that was needed, and given the absence of any kind of prophylactic medications to deal with asthma, like uh Salbutamol sulfate and uh clinical body light, and these other sort of medical miracle drugs, these steroids, which are used to treat asthma. The same with diabetes. A mutation which makes you diabetic today can be treated quite easily, palliatively, through through insulin and dietary regulation. Historically, it would have been impossible to treat um and as a result, nobody even knew what the condition was. Your mortality rate would have been very high.

So because the fitness reducing cost of these disease-causing-mutations has reduced, mutations are accumulating within our population. Don't take my word for it. This has been pretty much the mainstream position in human population genetics going back to the 1950s of the work of Hermann Mueller, who was the first person to propose that but mutations should be accumulating gradually, with a fitness loss per generation of about one percent. This was reiterated. Holden restated it. Bob Sanski restated it. Kim Mora, the originator of molecular neutralism, restated this. Hamilton restated this in a very famous essay, which was published in the second edition of narrow roads to gene land called the hospitals are coming. He's very pessimistic about um our prospects for being able to deal with accumulation of deleterious mutations. More recently, Michael Lynch wrote about it in a paper, and Chondratiev, who's one of the absolute titans in the field of human population genetics, wrote a brilliant book about it, called the crumbling genome. And it's a very, very good read.

84 of the genome is relates to the mind, so consequently, it follows that if people have physical mutations, they're likely to be comorbid with mental mutations. Think of the genome like a target. And you're shooting darts, or rather not shooting darts, you're throwing darts at a big target, right? And you've gone on the wall this large target. And different parts of the target have different sizes. So you have a bull'seye that covers 88 percent of the target and then you have the outer rings, right, which make up the remaining 22 percent. So if you're blindfolded, and you throw a dart at that target, what are you more likely to hit? You're more likely to hit a gene which is involved in some way in the regulation, maintenance or development of some brain function. And that's what that finding indicates, the fact that 84 of the genes in our genome are involved in the maintenance, regulation and development of brain function. Means that.

And this makes sense, because if you think about what humans are, we are a highly uncerebrated species relative to other primates. We have very big heads relative to our bodies. We have big brains. Even in terms of just the absolute brain mass for humans, ignoring, corrections for body size, etc, humans have extremely large brain. So it makes sense a lot of a genome is going to be involved in in brain growth, maintenance and development.

I understand that autism, which is, of course, a significant disorder of the mind, is associated with paternal age. Yes, that's right. You find that as Father's age and mothers as well. But fathers are, by far and large, the the greater source of these, what are called De Novo mutations. As fathers age, they bequeath to their offspring something like two and a bit de Novo mutations. Well, actually, it's more like one in a bit de Novo mutations. I actually reanalyzed the numbers recently. So at 1.4 De Novo mutations per year of advanced paternal age per diploid gamete, so per offspring.

So at the age of 35, the average father will have conferred something like 30 to 70 new mutations to their offspring's genome. And we're able to count them. So people have developed assays which allow you to actually count them. You can compare the genomes, you can do the sequencing of the offspring, you can do the sequencing of the parent, and you can work out what is present in the offspring that isn't present in the parent. And you can also work out to what extent. And that gives you, if you correlate that difference with the age of the parents, you get an idea of how the age of the parents actually affects the accumulation of mutations.

So in modern western populations, in the absence of purifying selection against these variants, which are fairly minor, these are mostly what are called synonymous variants. That's where you have a specific base pair that is switched out for another base pair. And these are synonymous variants, they mostly do nothing. They're not totally benign. They do affect protein coding. They do affect fitness. This has been shown in experimental mutation accumulation experiments with drosophila and melanogaster, where they've looked just at the accumulation of synonymous variants, and they found that there are fitness concepts. But, but don't forget, that's not going to be all of the mutations that you acquire from your parents. And by the way, for mothers, it's about a quarter of that. So they, they transmit about a quarter of those numbers of mutations per advanced year of maternal agency. You get some from the mothers as well. For the longest while, people thought they just came from the pair of fathers. But no, it turns out you get some from the mothers as well.

Advanced paternal age is more dangerous than maternal that's that there's some debate about that for some traits, possibly, like chromosomal amnioploidy, where you're talking about getting an extra chromosome 21, for example, and you have down syndrome, right? Um. But for these sort of point mutation type diseases, I think the jury is still out on whether maternal age versus paternal ages, it's not good to have either, right?

But the point is that with autism, it demonstrates this is a disorder of the mind, and it's, it's caused by more mutations. The molecular etiology of autism, is interesting, because there are other things as well which are going on there too. So, yes, there have been some studies showing that autism is quite robustly associated with paternal age. And as a consequence, that suggests that, yes, some of the factors which cause autism are related to having large burdens of these synonymous point variants. 

However, there is also literature showing that autism is associated with copy number variation. And copy number variation is basically a form of mutation. It's a bigger mutation. Copy number variation tends to be more harmful. It's much rarer these are rare variants, whereas these synonymous mutations is what are called common variants. Rare variants play a role in autism as well, and also intellectual disability more generally. And these rare variants, interestingly enough, copy number variation, some of these rare variants are characterized by not one single base pair changing, but by large numbers of base pairs either being deleted or being added to the genotypes. You get chunks of a genome which is duplicated. And sometimes you get, you get the situation where you have a sequence like this, where you have a base sequence here and you have another base sequence here, and they get flipped. So it's called an inversion. So you get inversions, you get deletions, you get additions, and you get substitutions as well, where entire chunks of a genome can be replaced with other chunks of the genome. That's what copy number variation is. And copy number variation is bad news. And it turns out autism, copy number variation also plays a role. 

But here's an interesting fact, copy number variation is not, to the best of our knowledge, associated with advanced paternal age. It seems to be a kind of additional thing that happens. In addition to you getting all these these point mutations, including some bad ones, like insertion deletion point mutations, which might come in as a function of paternal age. Most of those mutations could be benign, more or less. They're going to be synonymous variants. In addition to that, you might get these other mutations, legacy mutations, coming in, which are either legacy mutations or De Novo mutations, which arise spontaneously, independently of advanced paternal age, and will interact with one another to produce this perfect storm of genetics. 

Now we know what mutations are. Now we know why they're generally bad. We've got an idea of what they do, and we've got an idea of what sort of flavors they come in. And we also now know that they are increasing with every generation, because the pressures which disfavored them are no longer there. So essentially, we have a situation in which mutations are building up. What are the costs of those mutations? When people think about mutations, traditionally, in my field, which is molecular genetics, my phd is in molecular genetics, when we think about mutations, what we typically do is we think about, this gene went wrong, like in this autistic person, there was this particular gene variant which went wrong, which is associated with this particular neurotransmitter substance or which is associated with development of this particular structure in the brain, etc. And we therefore say, well, that mutation changed it was sorry. That mutation changed this biosynthetic pathway, or changed the way in which this particular part of the brain developed. And hey, presta, you've got a pathological phenotype of some sort. A mutant phenotype.

However, what we've done is we've come up with something we think is rather novel, which, by the way, we've been able to test using animals. You can't really test it with humans directly. And that's the idea that if somebody is, if humans and other social animals are somewhat reliant upon these interorganismal gene-gene interactions, these social epistasis, what happens when when you have a mutation occurring in one of the social partners, and the genetic variant, which was originally supposed to interact with other people, right, to produce optimal phenotypic development in those people, all of a sudden, now that variant's gone, it's been replaced with a mutant one. That variant is not just going to have an effect on the carrier, is it? Because that carrier has social partners with whom they are in social epistemic transaction, the fitness costs to carrying that variant are going to spill out. And they are going to affect the fitness characteristics of that individual's social partners, ie, those who are dependent upon that individual, for optimized gene expression in development. 

And this pliotropic. In other words, this mutation is not just having an effect on one system in one person. It's having a spillover effect, which is causing all sorts of damage to the extended phenotype, this lovely Richard Dawkins term, the extended phenotype, or social genotype, to use a term that's coming into vogue at the moment, the social genotype of the population. There's fragility in the system. So by which I mean the individuals and their social partners. Selection has favored those transactions. It has created correlations between the frequencies of expression of the of a particular gene in one individual and the frequencies of the expression of genes in another individual, where the frequency of the expression of the genes in the other individuals are contingent upon the presence of the gene in the first individual. So that individual needs to be there. He or she needs to have this particular gene presented. 

Selection has favored the covariance among these genes. But not in the same individual, in different individuals. So in other words, but the fitness of this individual is promoted by the fitness of this individual. So it's like seeing humanity almost as an organism, as a whole. And one of them is balls up. The reason why selection can favor these correlations between different genes and different individuals, where those genes are interacting between individuals, is because you have this kind of externalized fitness payoff. So a good example of this would be from the original linksfair paper in which the term social epistasis was coined. Now, what linksfair did was look specifically at the idea that you had a feeder cast, right? And then you had a kind of relatively undifferentiated cast of potential, whatever. And you could steer the development of the individuals within that undifferentiated, plastic sort of mass of Larvae in various ways by simply regulating the amount of food that they were given. You could regulate the food affordances that were made to them. And in so doing, you could giving a little bit more to this lava would make it more likely to become a worker. Giving a little bit less to this lava would make it more likely to become a soldier, et cetera. So there's this kind of internal uh logic that is needed by the colony to solve the problem of division of labor, and it does this through social epistasis.

Imagine you had some kind of mutation which affected the feeder cast, right, and made them misinterpret all the pheromonal signals and all the other control mechanisms within the colony, right that are guiding their behavior. Imagine what they do. Imagine what would happen to the whole colony if they started giving too much to this one, thus producing too much of this kind of worker, they gave too little to that one, producing too much of that kind of a worker, and the balance became suboptimal, right? It would, it would have a knockon effect. It would start to subvert the fitness of the entire colony. The entire super organism would start succumbing to a kind of internal decay. Because these optimal tradeoffs and balances and social epistemic transactions are no longer present, all because one group carries one mutation. 

So that's what I mean by this leverage effect. Social epistasis amplifies the fitness costs of these mutations. You can screw everything up, right? I think that's a very important metaphor as well. Because the Victorians used to constantly compare human society to a beehive. I believe they did so with a great deal of wisdom, because I think that the victorians, who I have already established in my previous work, were clever of an us. The Victorians were very cognizant of the ecologically valid parallels between a society under very strong group selection, and a cooperative breeding or, eusocial Insect colony. As a matter of fact, E.o. Wilson, the father of ... biology and, E.o. Wilson, pointed this out as well. He said, we as humans are looking at the wrong species when we think we can find our evolutionary antecedents among the primates. If anything, he's more like termites. We're under strong group selection. Very, very, very pronounced divisions of labor, very pronounced, hierarchical divisions of vertical division and horizontal divisions of labor. Lots and lots of payoffs to strong cooperation among genetically similar individuals. You know, all the stuff Rushton talking about, all the stuff Frank salter has talked about, ethnic genetic interest, that sort of thing, these are the hallmarks of a species that is under very, very strong group selection. Both Wilson's Ds, Wilson Eowin and others who have looked at human ecology, who have looked at the ecology of other cooperative breeding insects, they have shown mathematically that there stunning parallels, between the fitness functions that govern those colonies and the fitness functions that that govern human population.

 So we are a group selected species, and this is very important because it means we're easy to bugger up. So we are essentially, in a situation where our ecology is every bit as sensitive to the disruptive effects of these mutations, which inhibit or subvert these normal patterns of social epistasis, which are used as guides for development. We're vulnerable. And it follows that the more positive, the more complex the human society is, the easier it is for small changes to bugger it up. 
 
 What's more is is when you have a population that's under strong group selections, you look historically at great empires. For example, we have a paper by roy coming out soon with quite a prominent journal. We test a lot of these models, comparing the relative corporate fitness of the british empire and the french empire, the british wins, but the way it wins, ecologically is extremely interesting. We show that its success comes at the expense of the group level success of the french, to the point where the british start to outnumber the french three to one, if you look at the extended fitness of their their corporate fitness as a sort of an extended ethnic group. So if you go back to a point in time where we were in imperial competition and have this scramble for various parts of the world, and you had all these different players, you can see these dynamics, the group selection dynamics, of even more starkly present, essentially. 
 
 And this means that when you look at these populations, what you're really looking at there is a super organism. You're looking at something with very high division of labor control, what Kevin Mcdonald refers to as cultural controls. He has this very interesting line of work on, I think he calls the dual process of culture. And he talks of the dual process, theory of culture. He talks about how humans have these innate, implicit processing systems...
 
 Humans are evolved through being equipped with these specialized, what he calls effortful control system processing systems. So they could be things like general intelligence, or the general factor of personality. He thinks these are more likely to relate to personality, conscientiousness specifically. I think it's for gfp, we have a disagreement on this. But these explicit processing, effortful processing systems, what they allow you to do is to identify and track norms within a culture and to align yourself with norms. They also allow you to engage in competition over the construction and dissemination of those noise. And if you look at a lot of history as being competition over the control of culture, cultural generation, then it makes a lot of sense when you frame that within the context the group selection. Because they're what you're looking at is a situation in which there are certain facets of the group which are needed right to solve cooperation problems. How do you make it so that people do as they're told and do what's good for the group? You need to, you need your leadership cast to basically be promoting values. To be able to promote those values which benefit the group. And this brings us into things like religion.
 
 Religion solves the free rider problem. It engenders altruism. It engenders positive and negative ethnocentrism. It engenders martyrdom. It's the perfect sort of mechanism for for increasing annealing and binding at the group level. And it keeps people in line. So you have these topdown controls on behavior. You have this priestly, devoutly sort of leadership cast, who lead by example, have all these aristocratic virtues, etc, etc. And they are optimized for competition when there is such a group, once it's in that mode, is highly optimized in terms of intergroup and intergroup competition will eventuate from this, because such groups typically are expansionistic, and they'll bump into each other and they'll get into fights.
 
 And that's what happened for most of human history, up until very recently, up until Pax Britannica, basically. And maybe a little bit beyond with world wars one and two. But the issue is this, what happens, okay, when your leadership cast, your high iq, highly socially effective Individuals, the sort of people who go on and take leadership roles in the population? What happens when their genomes are burdened with what happens when their genomes are burned with spiteful mutations? What happens when you have all these followers around them? In the broader social bronff and berenner circles. You've got the microsystem, the meso system, the macro system, the exosystem, etc, those people who are further removed from them in terms of bio, you know, bioecological distance. Who are nonetheless still reliant upon those cues to leadership. And their leadership, instead of promoting the virtues of religion and the one true church and, you know, godliness and purity and all this sort of thing, are promoting individualism instead, or promoting an egalitarian, sort of centric ideology, as opposed to one which places, places a premium on authority.
 
 I'm looking at Haidt's model here sampling across his moral foundations. What happens when you start switching away from those binding moral foundations to those individualistic moral foundations. Such an elite may, by virtue of circumstance, have genomes which are more burdened with these spiteful mutations, and that, to a certain extent, their behavior may result from having those spiteful mutations. Well, what it does is it damages the whole of the society.
 
 Can I ask? because often you would expect that spiteful mutations would do things like reduce intelligence and reduce gfp. Isn't it possible that, despite mutations, have come somewhere in the middle of the hierarchy and have spread by a social episodic amplification to the top, through the sort of more environmental process than that they have them?
 
 My suspicion is that they've gotten there through upward social mobility. What's happened is the as we know for most of history the pattern was down with social mobility. So most people are descended from Edward  the third, or, in my case, I'm scottish, so robert the bruce, basically. Everyone, will have an elite ancestor. There'll be similar instances in Germany and and France, Et cetera. So that's upward social, sorry, downward social mobility looks like. Is the you have a circulation, decirculation of those with low status, largely because they're vulnerable to ecological and social hardship. So they get, they get selected out right, and they are replaced by the dominantly socially mobile descendants of merchants and aristocrats, etc, etc. And these people sort of sink into these niches. But what they didn't do during this period was simply recapitulate, they were smarter and had lower time preferences and higher impulse control, and they were able to bootstrap those niches.
 
 So once they were in there, they could innovate. And we got the Agrarian revolution, for example. And then we got the industrial revolution when enough of these people had descended into the labor force that the labor force became technically proficient enough to operate machines. And it was kind of this explosions growth in industry as a consequence of this longterm genetic bootstrapping, which started in the Uk, and sort of continued elsewhere in Europe and America, and eventually it spread throughout the rest of the world.
 
 And that's where your spiteful mutants would have gone. Historically, they'd they would have, they would have percolated down, they've disappeared. But now they're percolating up. Now they're going up.
 
 Why is it then, that the the working class, as it were, tend to tend to have more traditional less spiteful values in a lot of ways, and than the elite in all of our western societies? Well, that is a very good question. But one possible reason for this is because the strength of purifying selection on the elites is weaker than the strength of purifying selection, still today, on those in the lower classes. People who are elite, right? People have high educational status, high socioeconomic status, Et cetera, Et cetera. They're the ones who would have, uh, very early on, been early adopters of things like contraception. They would have been the principal beneficiaries of the initial innovations in hygiene, vaccination, relation, etc, which was a variant of vaccination, which predated Jenna's work.  They would have been the early adopters of these. They would have been the first ones to have benefited from these. They would have been the first ones to have really gotten themselves into environments which were largely germfree. And as a result, the stress of selection operating on that population would have been lower. So therefore opportunity for mutations to build up asymmetrically among the elites were higher. 
 
 Intelligence is the main predictor of moving up the social hierarchy. So is that very weakly associated with mutation? Yes. It is. The paternal we mentioned autism earlier having been associated with quite a robust paternal age effect. So older fathers bequeath more of these more common mutations and maybe some slightly less common mutations to their offspring, which increases, in a kind of dosedependent fashion, their likelihood of developing um, autistic like traits. 
 
 The same is not true of intelligence. The best data we have indicate that, at best, there's only a very, very, very small effect of advanced paternal age on Iq. There is a certain portion of the heritable variance in Iq, but is due to mutations they relate to these rare variants. And I was largely independent paternal age.
 
 What inspired you to come up with this, what I think is a fantastic idea is, Calhoun's mouse utopia. That's what got me thinking. John C Culhoon is very, very, very famous. He developed this model to test for the effects of overpopulation and malthusian traps, essentially, of demographic growth in, uh, in mice. And he wanted to sort of test all this Paul ehrlich stuff. Paul Erlich wrote this thing called, the popular book called the population bomb, which was a bestseller at the time. And in the book, he predicted thing like, by 2003, England would have resorted to cannibalism due to chronic food shortages and things like that. And I was alive then, and I don't remember that. So, so it turned out the book was, was largely bogus and it was based on malthusianism. So it's based on the idea as Finite World, Finite Resources. We breed to excess, we become overpopulated, we consume those resources, and then bad stuff starts to happen.
 
 So what Culhoon wanted to do was, was to sort of fast forward the process using mice as a test subject for this. He wanted to see what happens when you when you run it in super quick time, using mice, set up these experiments called mouse universes. And the universes were basically huge habitats, which filled entire rooms. And they had multiple layers of nesting sites, all stacked on top of each other, like highrise buildings, and ramps going everywhere, and huge amounts of hay on, comfortable hay that they can use for bedding, infamous amounts of hay, basically, infinite amounts of food, infinite amounts of water. There's no possibility they could run out of space, because these basically, it was a city like arrangement. He'd made a utopia for mice. A mouse cornucopia.
 
 To see what would happened when these mice started to run out of resources. But here's the weird thing, it never got that way. Never happened that way. The mice never ran out of anything. What happened was the mice started procreating as you would predict, as Paul Ehrlich would predict, right? You get this explosion of growth, exponential growth phase. So so far, Erlick's looking good, right? His hypothesis is looking sound. Oh, great. Great. And then it stops. And it starts to plateau like this. It reaches this peak, and then there's no further growth. And at this point, it's worth stating that it's not some kind of equilibrium with their environment. They haven't occupied every nesting box. They haven't used up every bit of straw. They haven't eaten every bit of grain that they've been given. There's tons of food left, tons of space left.
 
 And in this plateau phase, the mice are actually starting to do weird and antisocial things. But mice are starting to do things like, huddling, crowding together. Despite being tons and tons of space, we all crowd together. So you find this footage of mice in this plateau phase where they're all huddled together, and they start turning on each other, biting each other and getting aggressive for no apparent reason. Again, they're off as well as they're killing their offspring. And you get this situation where there's no more growth.
 
 You have this plateau phase right where it got really weird. And by weird, I mean interesting, because this is not what the sort of erlich model would have predicted. And then they start to decline, and they drop and they drop and they drop. And it's an accelerated decline like that. So it's an increase, flat line, and then a drop off like that. It's when they get to this point at which they start to drop off. Just before that, they get to that point, just before the drop off, before it starts going from asymptotic to you know, positively accelerated negative growth. You have a situation in which these odd mice get noticed, become conspicuous to the experimenters. And this is about two years into the experiment, essentially. 
 
 And Culhoon called the beautiful ones. And I just want to read you his description of them, because it's absolutely stunning. It resonates with every single theme that we've just covered. This is taken from his book published in the 1970s called death squared. And he notes on page 86 following, autistic like creatures capable only of the most simple behaviors compatible with physiological survival emerge out of this process. Their spirit has died. He calls this the first death. They are no longer capable of executing the more complex behaviors compatible with survival. The species in such settings dies. So he has intuited this, you see, he sees that these guys are bad news. As soon as they start appearing, they're heralding their portending the doom of the columns.
 
 They were not interested in breeding. They were fabulous. They were beautiful ones. He called them beautiful ones because they basically spent all their time grooming, yeah. So they sat in the corner and just groomed and grooming each other, and occasionally going and having some water or whatever, and then coming back. That's right. The females would have to pester them for sex, and they had no interest in it, which is incredible. It sounds a bit like something like Japan. Japan. Yeah, Japan. Exactly. Hikikomori culture. So it's very similar thing, strikingly convergent.
 
 I argued that, or I made a sort of rash dictum type statement, and that is that what if these beautiful ones are doing damage to the colony? And what if they're doing damage to the colony by virtue carrying mutations which make them actually withdraw from social life, essentially. And that act of withdrawing from the social life of the colony compromises the fitness of the colony in some way. And by the way, we've worked out, right down to the molecule, what's going on, because we've actually, we've actually got beautiful ones in the lab, and we've shown how they can contaminate wildtype, nonmutant mice with their mutant phenotype. The system was their eurine
 
 What's happening with the beautiful ones is, is the, this wasn't noted by Carlhoon, but the prediction I made was that they are doing something they're not benign. They're not just minding their own business, grooming, licking themselves, you know, having a good time being being mgtow mice. Mice going their own way. They're doing something else. There's something insidious happening there. They carry some variants that are bad news. And the reason why those variants are there in those numbers, is because you already have now enough of a sort of social epistasis load. You have enough of a load to be spiteful mutations that it's starting to really screw over the colony. And there's no surprise therefore. But as soon as they start appearing in large numbers, the colony starts collapsing.
 
 So the question is, what's going on? Well, these autistic like mice, as they're described, his words, not mine, they seem to be socially averse sexually averse. But critically, there are certain functions that mice have to actually engage in order to maintain the sort of corporate fitness of their, of their colonies, they have to cooperate with each other in nesting and rearing. They're very social. They're very social creatures. They do things like collected territory markings. So they will, they will go around marking territory, and then, based on markers left down by the other mice, they, they signal other mice not to remark that territory, and they'll collectively map out the entire territory. And this actually affects how they encode spatially. This has effects on how they where these urine markers are affect spatial encoding. So they, they can solve these complex problems. They can cooperate with each other in all sorts of elaborate ways.
 
 If you start introducing mutants into the mix, it can damage the cooperativity. And we did this. We actually did this. I have colleague of mine, a very, very brilliant experimental geneticist who works on mice, works on the social ecology of mice. Stefan baldwin a colleague of mine and at the university of wales. He is a very brilliant molecular geneticist who works on the molecular genetics of behavior and mice. And he had collected some data in which he found evidence that if you reared wildtype mice, that is to say, mice that do not carry mutations, with mice which carry a very specific mutation called nlgn3, these are knockouts for a gene called nlgn3. These genes are expressed in different parts of the mouse's body, but most prominently, they're in the pover bellum intraneuron expression region. So they they express in the brain, quite strongly in these specific regions of the brain.
 
 These mutants they have autisticlike behavior. They're actually used as a model in mouse studies for the study of autism. So we think that these nlgn3 mutants are the beautiful ones. Cohen, in the 1960s, did not have a molecular assay of ice. We do, we can make artificial beautiful ones by knocking out Nlg n3. And what Stefan and his crew, are very capable research students, found, there's a paper called Bossie Et Al published, they found was that they simply being around, simply being in the presence of these artificial, these nlgn knockout mice, was enough to reduce the testosterone of the wild type mice, reduce their ability to form stable and endearing social hierarchies. It increased the amount of variance in terms of behaviors among the mice in ways which are clearly suboptimal for the functioning of the colony. It induced all sorts of problems. It induced anxiety in these mice. It did all sorts of things. We reckon the sperm counts would have been surprised. So simply being around these mutants, it was almost like these mutants were cooties. That the cooties were coming off of these nlgn3 mutants, these knockouts, and infecting the other mice. And this is a social epistasis thing, because here mutant, the mutation is present in one mouse, and it's affecting the development, epigenetically, affecting patterns of gene expression in the other mice.
 
 Their culture is urine, and the urine is being interfered with. It's giving off urine. The urine is is our innovation. So tell me about that. Tell us about the story. So, so we, we have done some followup papers, which are, i'll be sending them off to, uh, some, uh, that one fairly prominent journal I won't mention where. But we decided to actually do a molecular accounting of what's going on here. And we wanted to also see if this affected communal or cooperative problemsolving type behaviors, which we think ought to be the case. If these spiteful mutations have amplified effects on the fitness of the social genotype, it should be the case that they're particularly bad when it comes to social coordination type tasks. That there's a urinary, major, urinary pheromone. This is a big, heavy, molecular, high molecular weight pheromone which is secreted in the urine of the mice called Darcin. Darcin is produced in very large amounts. But it's a very expensive pheromone to secrete. It's bioenergetically costly. And it turns out that the urine of these nlgn3 knockout mice is rich in Darcin and what the urine does is quite interesting, because mice are very promiscuous with their urine. The urine gets mixed together. Urine is rich in information concerning the status of the mouse, in terms of whether a female mouse is on easteros. They tell mice what the fitness characteristics of prospective partners, both sexual and social partners, are. They allow mice to identify genetically similar others and differentiate those from genetically dissimilar others, and so on and so forth.
 
So that urinary ecology is like our culture. And like our culture, is very vulnerable to being subverted through certain people pushing the wrong ideas, right? Maybe certain elites pushing atheism and destroying people's sort of sense of manifest destiny, making them more materialistic and nihilistic and this reduces their fitness. Well, in mice, that's what the urine does. The urine is their culture channel, essentially. And the whole ecology is geared towards, towards the urine. So what we found is that what's going on is these mutant mice are secreting these major urinary pheromone proteins in very large numbers, to the point where these pheromones are obscuring, their masking the normal odorants present in the urine, and overwhelming it to the point where the mice can no longer determine friend from foe. The mice can no longer determine, they can no longer work out who's who in terms of pecking order. This is why we can't form stable hierarchies, because the markers, these very subtle biochemical markers like immunoglobulins that signal uh immune system functioning, which are used as markers of dominance in mice, they're no longer present. It's just all this Dacrine. 

If your culture is altered, or your urinary culture, or your human culture. Mice are necessarily group selected. They're probably very, very kinselected. However, a group selection like facets to their revolutionary ecology. Humans definitely very strongly group selected, very, you know, top of the top of the pole as far as that's concerned. But in either case, where you have any kind of eusociality, divisions of labor, where you need to be able to regulate and control behavior, clear dominance, hierarchies, where you have, you need a clear sort of mechanism for curbing behaviour variance. You can't have all these mouse equivalent of atheists running around, right?

So once again, where where these mutant mice and their products have these very significant effects the efficiency of the colony, right? What they call the broadest dysfunction we found was in event, encoding for spatial mapping. So what mice do, as I mentioned earlier, is they solve this cooperative, communal problem of mapping out their territory using urinary markers that they have to be able to trust each disabled fred blog went here that territory, Joe Smith went there and marked that bit of territory. So I don't need to mark that bit of territory or that bit of territory, because Joe Blogs and Joe Smith, Fred Smith and Joe Bloggs are my kin, right? Yes? So I'm not worried about that. That's fine. Let's go to another bit of territory. They can't determine this anymore, exactly, because you have the mutant mice going around, and the mutant mice are ruining everything with their urine and obscuring all these olfactory signals. And it means the mice can't solve these problems.

But what's more, we did rna work. Got into the rna. We did expression profiling, profiling work. We took rna, we looked at specific parts of the mouse anatomy. We looked at the brains of the sacrificed mice. Specifically, we looked at the parabellum region. And yes, we found that exposure to dacron led to changes in the patterns of gene expression in the brains of these mice. And one of the things part of the parabellum seems to be important for doing is mapping out social and spatial relations.

Did you look at what happens if you take the mutants away? Do they go back to normal? That was done in the that's what that was done in the original paper. But they found you could recover, the term they used was recover the the colony. You could restore it to health and vitality by simply removing the mutants. How long was that without taking, you know, mouse time, no time. Weren't happy. They were functioning. They were, they were operating normally, I believe, with inside a week.

How would that follow with humans? If we have, hypothetically, if you, if you removed spiteful mutants from human populations, I suspect that a lot of the problems we have would go away very quickly. We can answer it in so far as, yes, if you identify the mutant mice with spiteful mutants, ones that are screwing up the epistasis. Remove them and the epistasis goes back. It shifts from this alternative, stable, suboptimal state back to a sort of more optimal state. That means, yes, you probably would find that, uh, you you would have a very different society it once, once the spiteful mutations have been identified and given a million bucks each and told to go and live on a beautiful tropical island in Hawaii and not to bother us again. That that would basically, that you would see, it probably a very profound shift.

And this is something you've pointed out with atheists. And I think it's okay to, I think it's okay to rag on atheists because nobody really likes them. And the fact of the matter is that, uh, that that they are a sort of textbook example of a group who I suspect are carriers of these sort of spiteful mutations. And you've produced evidence in the form of incidences of sinistrality. Sinistrality, lefthandedness, being a marker of developmental instability, which may or may not, depending on who you're now reading, be an indicator of mutation load. There's still some debate about this. They're somewhat consistent with this in addition to other sort of traits which might indicate high, abnormally high loads of mutations, higher rates of autism, etc. 

A paper with Dimitri, looked at the gfp across different religious groups. GFP. Are you socially effective or not? It's a measure of global social effectiveness. It's sort of like the g factor for big-5 personality. And we actually found that atheists have very little of this, which means they're very, very socially ineffective. Very, very low levels of social effectiveness. And that, I think, is consistent with some of what you're finding with a high rate support, with the higher rates of these other impossible incidences of developmental instability.

But critically,  you look at atheism and you look at what it was and how it was regarded historically in the middle ages. What did they do to atheists when when they, you know, what did they do to Giordano Brunei, for example, who was an atheist running around spreading atheism? What did they do to him? Yeah, they they warmed him up. They warmed them up. They basically engaged in, they engaged in proactive purifying selection. And that's what happened to a lot of these, a lot of these spiteful mutants, is they would have put put forward beliefs so contrary to the grain of what was considered good and righteous, which, again, is, must be contextualized within this broader sort of matrix of group selection level tradeoffs and fitness tradeoffs, things which went against the good of the group, essentially were the phenotypes which deviated too far away from the optimum of a group were basically eliminated.

And that's what used to happen. And the interesting thing about this, and this, by the way, we found corroboration of us in the mice, is what seems to be the case is, if you treat something like religiosity, so it's a mutually interesting, mutually interesting thing if you treat something like religiosity as being a group level adaptation. Then we know something about the evolution of adaptations when you have what's called optimization selection, that is to say, selection which is stabilizing around the optimum. It's highly centripetal. It's sort of inward pulling. So it pulls inwards, as opposed to being centrifugal, pushing outwards, favoring more variants. You have high levels of centripetal selection, or inward pulling selection. That leads to a very heavily truncated distribution. And for certain traits which are highly optimized, right? Adaptively optimized, there's no variation. Everyone is the same. So you have two legs, right? There's no heritability to the number of legs that you have, because everyone has the same number of legs, right? More or less. There's very little variation there. So there's no opportunity, really, for heritability. That's what optimizing selection looks like. It makes everybody the same.

When a population is under adaptive selection, it's trying to optimize. And one of the ways it'll optimize at the group level, this is a novel in sight, is in having these very, very strong centrifugal selection pressures, centripetal purifying selection pressures, which thin the herd, essentially reduce the amount of variance of the extremes and reduce or truncate the range of variability around what is optimum for that particular group. And those are the cultural controls. That's what the cultural controls are doing. They're saying, this is the right way to be. If you deviate from this, there will be social costs, sexual costs, other forms of costs. So either you are like this, you like this optimum, or you are not. The religiousness that has survived historically, that has promoted this optimum, as far as I can see? Yes, that's right.

You can't have this situation where everyone is running around promoating alternative spiruality. Coming up their own ideas about oneness with God and all the sort of thing. No, no, no. They're heretics. They have to go. You have to have people who obey highly centralized religious edicts. Coming down in the form of very strong, group selected controls on free riding behavior and culture. This is all in D.S. Wilson. You know, read D.S. Wilson's book, Darwin's cathedral. It's all in there. And you have a strong optimizing selection, which reduces the amount of variance associated with these traits of your work.

Is there a paternal age effect on religiosity? Is that church attendance? Yes and no. But the yes and no is extremely interesting, and i'll tell you why. Because basically, if you look at the pattern of the yes and the no, it turns out present there is a paternal age effect on religiosity among individuals who were born in the 1970s and 1980s. This is in the ad health cohort. However, among those born in the 1930s and 1940s, in the Wisconsin longitudinal study, another representative US Cohort. There is no effect.

Is that because everyone's religious? precisely? So, what we're saying is that what's happened is, back then cultural controls were very strong. And even if you had mutations that you picked up, spiteful mutations that you may have picked up from your father by virtue of him being a little bit too old looked too past it when he had you, it was suppressed. He used some societal mutations. Societal pressures were so strong that they would suppress this tendency, and everyone went to church. And that's the monomorphic selection pressure that I'm talking about, effortful control that you force, that's yourself.

So not just you force yourself, other people can force you as well, because other people can say, oh, Joe Smith wasn't in church on Sunday. Gossip, gossip, gossip, right? And all of a sudden you lose business. All of a sudden there's an opportunity cost. So deep down, you might be thinking, I hate religion, I really hate it. You know, heil Satan or something. You might be thinking that, deep down you may really, really, really hate the religion, but the controls on your behavior are such that you are basically going to be induced into going along with the flow. 

I not just with the behavior, but with intrinsic religiousness as well. I mean, you can be induced to believe things, I think, if the pressure is strong enough. It goes both ways. So you could have a subset of these people who might be irreligious, but not in a kind of, you know, atheistic, I want to destroy.

So those people could then be genetically atheistic, on some level autistic, or whatever, autism. And then when the control is taken away, that's it. You start to see the spread of the precisely. And that's what happened in the 60s. 

And it's interesting, because there are parallels with the heritability of age at first sexual debut. There's a big literature on this. There's one study in particular that showed that age at sexual debut, the heritability was really low prior to the 60s. That's because your age at sexual debate would have been under very strong parental control, very strong social control. So it would have reflected, apparently, pressures emanating from a broader society. So even if you had a genetic propensity towards maybe popping out a baby a little bit early, you would be have unlikely to have done this, because the sanctions against doing it were very strong. The pressures to conform were very high. Parental expectations two parent households being the norm back then, would be much stronger two parent effect on the on the offspring. So the heritability there was very low. It was masked by the effect of all of these controls. Afterwards, after the sexual revolution, the heritability explodes. So because the the the genetic diversity has caused these carefully adapted cultural controls to collapse, which is that amplified the consequences. The more recent of the two cohorts, we get the paternal age effect with a vengeance. It's indestructible.