---
layout:     post
title:      Law of unintended consequences
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - iq
---

Somehow group select for high child iq without infant mortality. 

Anything that differentially handicaps the fertility of people based on Iq is going to lead to a change in the gene frequency. If one were to manufacture an agent or something that would be released into the environment that, you know, caused people like us below 90 to all of a sudden experience a crash in fertility, then, yes, the only people who'd be having children would be people with high iq. But you'd then experience a massive collapse of population size, because they really don't have very many offspring.

So it's this law of unintended consequences, that every time you come up with some cunning scheme to, you know, do something eugenic like, you often end up setting up novel selection pressures which will cause unforeseen problems further down the road. The welfare trait, Adam perkins, the idea of a welfare state was a very good one, but he's argued, you know, to have a system in which you had a social safety net, and all these people who were going hungry and tired and sick were no longer going hungry tired and sick, you know, they were gainfully employed with full bellies and with a social safety net and with vaccinations and medical attention, etc.

But based on Perkins work, it set up, uh, selection pressures favoring what he calls employment resistant personality, which presumably would include low iq as well. So it's you try to fix one problem, and you end up setting up model selection pressures which lead to more problems. So, I don't know if this prospective solution to the problem of Iq disgenesis.

Suddenly all of these simple things that that used to be done, like cleaning toilets and baking cakes and making food, wouldn't be being done, anymore. So that's the other problems well. But then presumably the flip side of that is you get a Singapore type situation, and all these smart, smarties would start inventing, or like Japan, where all the smarties start inventing robots to do all the menial labor. So that that that might be, uh, might be the solution to that particular issue. But then there's the same smarties that would invent the robots through the meal labor, would invent sex robots. And then people were still having children, like in Japan. But then you have another problem. So this is the thing the socalled sexual herbivory culture in Japan, which is the sort of acquired asexuality that they all the young, young have over there, which is causing fertility to drop to levels that shouldn't even be possible.