---
layout:     post
title:      IQ is polygenic
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genius
---

Valkmar Vice, was very enthusiastic about duf1220 copy number as a reason for higher g any news about this topic?

Yes, that's right. He is very enthusiastic. What it is basically a copy number variation, which means a big chunk of genes that gets duplicated in the genome. And it it turns out that there's one study, this is part of the problem, it's just one study. It hasn't actually been replicated, which showed that each addition of this copy number variation, increased iq by three Iq points. So basically it's a uh, nobody really knows what it does. This is why it's been given the label d U F. D U F is an acronym. It stands for domain of unknown function. It does something that we don't know what, hence unknown. Um, but the issue is, does it really add Ikea doesn't really increase iq by three points with every copy? Uh, the problem with this is that nobody's really replicated it. Nobody's tried to replicate it. And my suspicion is that such a thing would stick out like a sore thumb in the gwass studies which are being done. And yet, there doesn't seem to be any indication of it in these genomewide association studies. So I have a hard time believing it's going to replicate.

But yes, voldemort was very enthusiastic about this because, as some of you who may be familiar with his work know, he has proposed this thing called the major gene theory of intelligence, which is based on the idea that, instead of intelligence being massively polygenic, it's actually massively monogenic. And there's sort of three major genes, and they sort of combine in different ways to give rise to different Iq Phenotypes, which gives rise to what's called a pseudonormal distribution. So that normal distribution is really just the result of three genes being distributed randomly, essentially, in the population.

And he he has this evidence for this in the form of studies which he conducted in the 1980s in East Germany, where he looked at the inheritance of mathematically precocious talent. And he found among these mathematically talented individuals that basically the inheritance was sort of Mono hybrid. It kind of resembled sickle cell anemia. And you had the sort of one kid who was really, really mathematically precocious, and a bunch of regress to the median offspring were not so precocious. And on that basis, he sort of confected this major gene theory.

But it might be that there but these rare traits, these talents, which are highly energetic, which require rare genes to come together, they will not breed. True, you'll get these extreme, nonadditive, sort of dominance type effects, whereby you'll get this huge increment of performance to having a small number of additional copies of these rare loci. And yes, that might segregate among the offspring in a way that's sort of somewhat mendelian or paramandalian. But intelligence doesn't look like that. And we know that because of the results of polygenic scoring and genomewide association studies, and gcta as well, which is how you can get the heritability of iq, just using child similarity among genotypes. So his theory is dead. It's it's completely dead. And I think he thought that the DUF finding was a, was a way of saving it.