---
layout:     post
title:      Manners are a way of suppressing low GFP, r strategists
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - big-5
 - life-history
---

Are modern mating rituals like twerking or tinder maybe r selected and impulsive. It seems like manners and politeness is a way of romantically handicapping impulsive extroverts. 

Well, presumably it's a way of showing that you're not impulsive. And being impulsive is often a bad thing, from a female or male perspective. So if are wanting to have more than simply a sexual fling, if you're actually looking for a relationship, then presumably you don't want a person who is highly impulsive, because that highly impulsive person might change their mind about you. You might invest in them and lose out on the investment. They might have an affair that either cockhold you, or love you and leave you, or or whatever. So you don't want a person to be highly impulsive. It's, in general, not a good thing. And so consequently, it would make sense to develop a ritual in which you can show that you are not highly impulsive, ie manners. So from an evolutionary perspective, or from your own perspective, it would be a good thing to show that you're not important, you're not highly impulsive, 

Presumably, in other contexts. Being highly impulsive can be attractive in the sense that it might imply some degree of honesty. So there was some research, I think I recall, that found that people that are swear a lot are considered more attractive as friends, because people infer from their swearing that what you see is what you get. And there's an honesty to them. And so they quite like that. So perhaps there's an honesty to people that can't deal with structures, and they're kind of impulsive, at least, at least you at least they're not playing a game. So there's two dimensions to it, perhaps. 

If you bring in a a system of restricted behavior, where certain rules and conventions have to be followed, such as the traditional means by which we, I mean even it's something at a very basic level. If somebody says to you directly, in England, anyway, at a when you're at a wedding or something, and you get chatting, and someone says, you say, what do you do? Then, well, they're not playing the game. There's, there's a game that they're supposed to play. They're not meant to ask you your job. They're meant to sort of skirt around it and whatever. And they want to find out your job. They want to judge you in the social pecking order, as do you them. But you're meant to play this game. And the ability to do that implies a it implies rule following. And law following, within certain boundaries, is is a socially desirable trait. 

Rule following correlates with religiousness.It's part of the general factor of personality, which people tend to like. It's part of doing well in life. It's part of the kind of person you want to be around. So following rules, this whole system pushes out people that are that are low in impulse control.

I don't know about extroversion, although perhaps, to a degree, yes, you don't want someone that's too extroverted, because being an extrovert correlates with risktaking. It correlates, as we saw earlier, with getting into car crashes and things, taking risks and dying young. And, sexual promiscuity. And to a certain degree low. Iq, so, um, on every level, you could argue that these kinds of systems have helped are selected, are put into place because it allows you to make judgments about the personality.