---
layout:     post
title:      Chronic individual level selection and populist leaders
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - individual-level-selection
---

Well, I think that the, you've got to look at this, uh set against the backdrop of chronic individual level selection. And it's, I don't think it's any accident that, populist politicians like trump and salvini and orban and, to a lesser extent, even Boris Johnson. You know, one of the reasons they are perceived by people is actually liking normal people, is because they're sort of more group selected in terms of their mindset. They they kind of have this you know, this attitude that what they're doing is for the good of their country. And people generally respond to that in a positive way. Hence populism. It's generally popular. So it's certainly not true that all elites are hostile and sort of aloof. 

I'd say that the ones that are more cosmopolitan and globalist and individually selected, the ones who tend to identify more with abstract, impersonal, transnational bureaucracies and very high, you know, highly powered, sort of small, small groups like bilderberg and things like that, the sort of people who hang around in these clubs. Those those people are going to be more individually selected, and they're going to be less, sort of, positively inclined towards their own people, versus, say, randomly selected other people. So they're going to be less concerned about the impacts of their policies on demographics, and they're going to be more generally hostile to expressions of sort of ethnic selfinterest on the part of the people

So I think you have to draw a distinction. I just draw a distinction. I suppose you could argue that the far left, people like Jeremy Corbyn, are group selected, but just in a spiteful, negative way. They're so that they've group oriented but it's towards the destruction of their ethnic interests, rather than their promotion. But they are group oriented. They're not individualist. Is that fair? They're not, they're not in favor of individualism.

Well, someone like Corbyn.

Is he an individualist? Corbin, I don't know.

He's a sort of old, old left, isn't he? He's, he might be a kind of literal throwback from the 60s or 70s, when you had these real marxists who actually cared about the working classes. Yes.

How do we fit him into this, into this division between being group selected and being individualistic? What is, what is someone like that?

I suppose his, his, if i, if I were to sort of guess, i'd say that his instincts were definitely more old working class, in terms of how he perceives himself. He he would be more of a kind of national communist, right? Or national marxist, or something, being pulled politically towards, uh, you know, globalism and cosmopolitanism. And you can see he's clearly not a remainer. He is someone who is very obviously a brexiteer. This is very clear if you look at his history of voting and his sort of alliances that he's entered into with other politicians and things. But a lot of people in his own party are pulling him towards, remaining, to the point where he now wants to force a second referendum if he wins this election coming up on the 12th.

So I think it's difficult really to say what he is. I mean, what he is is weak, right? Because he's allowing himself to be, to be pulled in all sorts of different directions at once. And he's not going with his instincts. And I think if he really went with his instincts, he would actually be very popular among the working classes. And I think he really would be a threat to johnson. 

I mean, there's, there's sort of spiteful mutants that want the destruction of the of the ethnic group. Plus, I mean, 

I'll put a record say I don't actually dislike Jeremy Corbyn. I wouldn't vote for him, but I don't actually dislike him. I've heard he's a very agreeable person, and you can actually sit down and have a conversation with him, and he's not like a screeching, incoherent, you know, Sjw type. He's actually quite a nice guy.

Okay, oh, well, maybe so. But it's very interesting though, the gentry, the people like, like Boris Johnson and, uh, Jacob Reese Mogg, that that they have the same instincts, as we've discussed before, as the as the working class, the same sort of group selected kind of, yeah, i've heard that Boris Johnson's a very nice guy as well. Don't have a chat with him. He is someone who's every bit the opposite of corbin in in terms of polarity, but every bit be equal in terms of being able to sort of reach that reach that basic, popular what do you call it? A populist workington voter, essentially, which is the current term. No, he was kind enough when I submit an article to spectators, I said before, to write back and comment on it and recommend what to do and things like this.