---
layout:     post
title:      Science is apolitical
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - science
 - politics
---

And he talks about a group struggle. And how could science be nonpolitical?

Okay, well, I mean, science is inherently nonpolitical. Um, science is based on a, you know, the fundamental sort of Axiom, essentially, which is that it is truth oriented. Telos is this concept of Telos. So different things have different Teloses, right? The Telos of science is truth. So science can't be anything other than truth oriented. It can not be political. The scientific findings can be put to political use. That's absolutely true, that can, indeed it does happen, there's nothing wrong with that, I'd rather have a scientifically informed policy than nonscientifically informed policy. I'd rather have, for example, medical doctors informing the actions of the surgeon general, than homeopathists.

So, science can interplay or intercourse with politics. It can guide politics, but ultimately the telos of politics is something entirely different. It's not the same as the telos of science. And to an extent, they are nonoverlapping magisteria like that. Science is inherently apolitical. People can try and make arguments that science should not be value neutral. It should actually have a social justice component to it, and it should be the duty of scientists to go out there and basically fix the world, essentially. 

The postmodernists trying to argue that the science once once they, once you accept this relativism idea, which, as far as items is inherently inconsistent. They're because if you, if you accept that, it's Richard dawkins his old tale of, okay, well, you know, if you, if you're flying to an anthropology conference, that you're at 30 000 feet, how could you be a cultural relativist? Because it's western engineering. It's some, it's a certain, uh, you can say all different world views are relative, but it's that one that's making you stay in the air.

The classic one, it's very similar to your example, is you have cancer. And you have a choice. You can go to the oncologist, and maybe you have 20, 30, 40, 50 chance of achieving cure in 10 years after, you know, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, whatever. Or you can go to the witch doctor, and you can have him wave his sticks around and chant. Now, if you're a real, genuine, committed epistemic relativist, then you by simply discriminating between those two, is an imperialistic act. To say that this is necessarily better than that is imperialism. It's discriminatory.

And you should have known about this crap at the moment of decolonializing Oxford University, that's right, getting rid of cecil Rhodes...