---
layout:     post
title:      The best scientists are hobbyists
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - genius
---

For me, the best scientists have always been hobbyists. These are people who basically, these are people who basically have a passion that's so deep and so profound for the love for their field, that is so strong that they're willing to basically just do what they do without expectation of material reward, which pretty much describes our condition. You and I both have, we have honorary academic positions, we've held be what you could call gig economy positions. You typical millennial thing. Well, I'm a millennial. I don't know about you, maybe you're a zoomer or something, but you know, these gig economy type things where you sort of go from one random job to another, sort of picking up the odd bit of money here, the odd bit of money there, so no stable or permanent or gainful employment within academia. And, the prospects of obtaining this are very, very poor. 

But that doesn't mean that if you're really driven and committed, by passion for your field, that you can't pursue independent study be it in a structured context, ie through a university, ie in pursuit of a researchbased degree, like a master's degree or a phd. Or alternatively, in your spare time, as an amateur and or a citizen scientist, to use the current jargon. And there's a huge role played, you know, a huge potential role, but the very, very competent citizen scientists can actually play in advance. 

Indeed, we've always had lots of citizen historians. Do you have a heavens sake. Do what interests you. If you want to be a parttime biologist, studying this in your in your spare time in some professional, semiprofessional way, and you want to use this other revenue stream to generate income, then go for it. Do I hate to say this, but, you know, it sounds sort of like dopey advice, but it's true. It's true for millennials especially, and for the younger people. Do, you know, do what makes you happy. Don't force yourself into a situation where you have to sort of be a bug living in a cubicle for 75 dollars an hour or something, working megacorp or something.