---
layout:     post
title:      Spite as Evolutionary Stratergy
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - evolutionary-stratergy
---

And she says, what human phenotypes benefit the most from suppression and prevention of sociocultural phenomenon such as mormonism? 

So you're asking about human phenotypes that benefit from suppression of sociocultural norms? So these would be phenotypes that actively attempt to subvert these norms, and in so doing, quite a crew of benefit. What you're really looking at there is the foundation of the social epistasis amplification model. Essentially, there are obviously going to be some free riders in any given population. Free riders in any given population under group selection, which will benefit from essentially going their own way and doing their own thing. That's going to be a normal feature of the group's evolutionary ecology. Essentially is going to have to put up with these free riders.

There are going to be individuals also who have, who have the tendency to actually want to undermine the group in terms of the groups, uh, the factors that sustain group level fitness. And these individuals may actually compromise their own fitness in so doing. These organisms may compromise their own fitness in so doing. So we call these, we call these sort of spiteful phenotype, or the carriers of these spiteful mutations. Because if you look at if you look at the range of evolutionarily stable strategies, one stable strategy that arises is spite in that if you you can cost somebody fitness at the expense of your own fitness, but because nobody's gaining any fitness, it's kind of an evolutionary equilibrium, because nobody gains anything then. So these mutations that cost you some fitness, but cause possibly bigger fitness costs for the group around you, may even raise your relative fitness relative to the group, but in the long run, will guarantee the extinction of all carriers of those variants in the group, which is essentially what we think Carlhoon saw in his mouse utopia experiments.

Within human populations, yes, there's going to be a, there's going to be carriers of these variants. And, these people going to be running around promoting sort of antigroup selected ideologies and things. Not so much for followers, but the sort of avantgarde of these, these these movements, essentially. And, we've used the term antigenius. Charlton Bruce Charlton have used the term evil genius. But we've sort of reinvented this concept in the form of the antigenius. These would literally be brilliant people, brilliant, brilliant people who are to individual level selection what geniuses are to group selection. These are geniuses of being able to undermine group selection, essentially. Um. So so these are, this would be one such phenotype. The evil genius. Basically the James Bond figure try to destroy, like, picasso or something like that. Under undermine everything, like the genius type, but antigroup selected.