---
layout:     post
title:      Ted Kaczynski
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - autism
---

What do we think of Ted Kaczynski? And it turns out that's the unit, you know, have you heard of the unit bomber? 

He's an extremely smart chap. He wrote a phd. Uh, he wrote his Phd. Thesis on an extremely obscure area of mathematics. And only, there was only one other person in the world who was actually able to appraise the thesis. I think he's an incredibly smart guy. And was, when he was loose, very dangerous as well, targeting various individuals, mainly college professors and heads of industry, who he thought was sort of bringing about a AI Armageddon. He was very concerned about the effects of technological progress on human wellbeing, human decency. He was a sort of a primitivist. And he wrote, he wrote a document called the unibomber manifesto, which was published in, I think it was the New York times. And he to get him to publish it, he actually threatened to kill people. So he sort of used that as leverage, and they put the whole thing out. You can read it online. 

And he, he's very critical of both the left and the right in there. And he, he's not a, he's not a leftist by any stretch of the imagination. Or is he a rightist. He he was extremely critical of both both orientations of the political spectrum. And it's interesting, actually, many of the criticisms that he made at the left in particular, are somewhat evocative criticisms which have been made by people on the new right today. Essentially, this is a very interesting instance of sort of historical presence.

He's extraordinarily high iq. Do you think this has any connection to his to his actions? Or is this simply very high iq plus mental instability of some kind equals potentially very dangerous things? Because you can achieve a great deal with high Iq plus you're slightly mad. 

Well, I think that being high iq, he's naturally going to be attracted to very unusual positions.

Industrial society and its future, that's the name. Yes. And he's actually written books. He's written sort of very extensive critiques of modernity, which have been published. I think one was published last year. The other was published, the year before, or is due to come out or something. There's, there's two books,  small publisher. And, he does a lot of work with an academic over over the university michigan who I've corresponded with. I can't remember the name of the chap, but he's also sort of a quite an interesting interesting correspondent. It's amazing. He's still active. He's still writing despite the fact he's in jail and no prospect of him getting out anytime soon. 

So I don't know what it would be. Some sort of connection very high iq and autism, or something?

He must have had something wrong with him. Normal people don't, don't mail bombs to MIT professors. You know, that's, that's not not healthy behavior. But he apparently was absolutely convinced that doing this was necessary to mitigate the damage of modernity and mitigate the damage of industrialization. He really thought that these processes robbed people of their basic dignity, and that there was a sort of a basic connection between people and the land and the people in the environment, and that this was completely despoiled, and this relationship was sort of alienated. People were alienated from this, and it did cause misery and despair and all this sort of thing. He really believed the only way to deal with this was through direct action, essentially was through violence. He was a man of conviction. He did what he did, and he got, in my opinion, quite rightly, bought to bought justice for it.

A very interesting factoid about how the Cia tortured him for two years as part of a study on demoralization. That's true. When he was at university, when he was at Harvard, he participated, for credit in an experimental psychology course. And part of his experimental psychology course involved, basically, it involved you reading as a vignette or something like an item of work. And then the professor would sort of come in and start screaming abuse at you, constantly screaming abuse at you, and tearing you down and calling you names and doing all sorts of terrible things, uh, ripping your work apart, really demoralizing. And this was going on for two years.

And it was quite extraordinary, this experiment. And it does seem to have been part of a broader Cia sponsored set of activities that were going on at Harvard at that time to try and sort of refine techniques for interrogation and, and refined sort of methods for psychological warfare and things. And they're actually trialing the stuff on students. And Kozinski was one of the students. And you have a very little known fact about him, but i, I heard about that recently. It's absolutely fascinating.

There are other traumatic things that he went through as well. I was just reading just a wicked, albeit, his wikipedia entry that his father committed suicide, and that he was bedridden for a long time as a child, and things like this. So he had a bit of a time.