---
layout:     post
title:      Hip to waste ratio
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - iq
---

Parker, any data on female waste to hit ratio and iq?

There must be data on that. There must be later. Um, I would think. I mean, well, I mean, there's a negative. My understanding is that there is a negative relationship between Iq among women now and weight, fat, being fat. So so it would surely follow the optimum hip to waste ratio would would be associated with, Iq these days, because it would mean that, you, you, you would have, you'd be healthier. And that would permit you to, to, um, maintain a the desired body type. Um, I don't know about with regard to women who are underweight. That tends to correlate with being mentally unstable and neurotic and and things like that. I would also assume that it would, it would require to be underweight, you'd have to have the degree of impulse control necessary to be underweight. So so consequently, you would expect women who were anorexic or whatever, who were very, very thin to have reasonably high iq. But, yeah, I think that's, I think that's fairly obvious that the the iq is gon na be weakly associated with a smaller hip to waist ratio.

If these relationships and women with some of these sort of childbirthing characteristics might be curvilinear. Yes. Well, that's what I'm saying. Certainly with with it, with with hip to waste ratio. The it's too too thin is unattractive, apparently, because it's associated with infertility. and too fat, again, unattractive, associated with infertility. And the optimum is is optimally associated with infertility, although there's cultural trends. It kind of goes up and down in what's found attractive. But that, it's the, it's the Maryland Monroe hip to waste ratio. Um, that, uh, that that is, that is, that is, uh, that is generally attractive. 

African Americans were much more tolerant of very, very large women, in a way that white people and were not. And northeast asians were particularly intolerant of them. They were particularly disgusted by overweight women. Um, and then at the other extreme, so that it was all it was africanamericans that were very uninterested in, like, stick thin women. They didn't like them.

There're yery distinct racial differences in terms of body shape preference.  With orientals, it's much more of the kind of the waif type figure. That's what they like. And with the black people, it's much more kind of Marilyn Monroe kind of extreme. And there's all kinds of variation in between. And also, the the figure that you're attracted to varies. One of the study I read was it looked, it got males and it gave them various states of hunger, and then it looked at what this did to them, and they tended to be more inclined towards a, uh, yeah. Here we go. There's a thesis on this. I'll just get it. I'll just, um, uh, the they, they tend to be more inclined towards the more Maryland Monroe type hip, to basically fatter women. If they with larger buttocks and things like this, if they were hungrier, so that's kind of pushed in more ara direction. And then they're more inclined towards females with less prominent secondary sexual characteristics if they were pushed in a more, k direction.

There was a thesis by, uh, Justine Elizabeth Kelly of the University of Dayton. And the study investigated waste hit ratio and Iq scores, and whether the relationship might be affected by various factors, female conscious, small n 51 Iq test. The currency did not replicate previous findings of a link between wha and iq.

In a study of 917 adults of both sexes, 2008, it was found an inverse relationship between waist circumference and cognitive ability of, uh, minus 01, and between waist hip ratio and cognitive ability of Minus 09. Uh, significant. Uh, even when controlling the cardiovascular disease. So a very slightly smaller, there's a very slight relate, a negative relationship, between hip to waist ratio.

Often the curvilinear effects can be quite large, even if the linear term is quite small. Yeah, exactly so. So she doesn't look at that. She just says that it's a tiny relationship. Thinner women are more intelligent. Whether that would be the case in poorer societies, know, remains to be seen.