---
layout:     post
title:      Highlight from Sermon on the Mount
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - social-epistasis
---

What are the costs of those mutations? When people think about mutations, traditionally, in my field, which is molecular genetics, my phd is in molecular genetics, when we think about mutations, what we typically do is we think about, this gene went wrong, like in this autistic person, there was this particular gene variant which went wrong, which is associated with this particular neurotransmitter substance or which is associated with development of this particular structure in the brain, etc. And we therefore say, well, that mutation changed it was sorry. That mutation changed this biosynthetic pathway, or changed the way in which this particular part of the brain developed. And hey, presta, you've got a pathological phenotype of some sort. A mutant phenotype.

However, what we've done is we've come up with something we think is rather novel, which, by the way, we've been able to test using animals. You can't really test it with humans directly. And that's the idea that if somebody is, if humans and other social animals are somewhat reliant upon these interorganismal gene-gene interactions, these social epistasis, what happens when when you have a mutation occurring in one of the social partners, and the genetic variant, which was originally supposed to interact with other people, right, to produce optimal phenotypic development in those people, all of a sudden, now that variant's gone, it's been replaced with a mutant one. That variant is not just going to have an effect on the carrier, is it? Because that carrier has social partners with whom they are in social epistemic transaction, the fitness costs to carrying that variant are going to spill out. And they are going to affect the fitness characteristics of that individual's social partners, ie, those who are dependent upon that individual, for optimized gene expression in development. 

And this pliotropic. In other words, this mutation is not just having an effect on one system in one person. It's having a spillover effect, which is causing all sorts of damage to the extended phenotype, this lovely Richard Dawkins term, the extended phenotype, or social genotype, to use a term that's coming into vogue at the moment, the social genotype of the population. There's fragility in the system. So by which I mean the individuals and their social partners. Selection has favored those transactions. It has created correlations between the frequencies of expression of the of a particular gene in one individual and the frequencies of the expression of genes in another individual, where the frequency of the expression of the genes in the other individuals are contingent upon the presence of the gene in the first individual. So that individual needs to be there. He or she needs to have this particular gene presented. 

Selection has favored the covariance among these genes. But not in the same individual, in different individuals. So in other words, but the fitness of this individual is promoted by the fitness of this individual. So it's like seeing humanity almost as an organism, as a whole. And one of them is balls up. The reason why selection can favor these correlations between different genes and different individuals, where those genes are interacting between individuals, is because you have this kind of externalized fitness payoff. So a good example of this would be from the original linksfair paper in which the term social epistasis was coined. Now, what linksfair did was look specifically at the idea that you had a feeder cast, right? And then you had a kind of relatively undifferentiated cast of potential, whatever. And you could steer the development of the individuals within that undifferentiated, plastic sort of mass of Larvae in various ways by simply regulating the amount of food that they were given. You could regulate the food affordances that were made to them. And in so doing, you could giving a little bit more to this lava would make it more likely to become a worker. Giving a little bit less to this lava would make it more likely to become a soldier, et cetera. So there's this kind of internal uh logic that is needed by the colony to solve the problem of division of labor, and it does this through social epistasis.

Imagine you had some kind of mutation which affected the feeder cast, right, and made them misinterpret all the pheromonal signals and all the other control mechanisms within the colony, right that are guiding their behavior. Imagine what they do. Imagine what would happen to the whole colony if they started giving too much to this one, thus producing too much of this kind of worker, they gave too little to that one, producing too much of that kind of a worker, and the balance became suboptimal, right? It would, it would have a knockon effect. It would start to subvert the fitness of the entire colony. The entire super organism would start succumbing to a kind of internal decay. Because these optimal tradeoffs and balances and social epistemic transactions are no longer present, all because one group carries one mutation. 

So that's what I mean by this leverage effect. Social epistasis amplifies the fitness costs of these mutations. You can screw everything up, right? I think that's a very important metaphor as well. Because the Victorians used to constantly compare human society to a beehive. I believe they did so with a great deal of wisdom, because I think that the victorians, who I have already established in my previous work, were clever of an us. The Victorians were very cognizant of the ecologically valid parallels between a society under very strong group selection, and a cooperative breeding or, eusocial Insect colony. As a matter of fact, E.o. Wilson, the father of ... biology and, E.o. Wilson, pointed this out as well. He said, we as humans are looking at the wrong species when we think we can find our evolutionary antecedents among the primates. If anything, he's more like termites. We're under strong group selection. Very, very, very pronounced divisions of labor, very pronounced, hierarchical divisions of vertical division and horizontal divisions of labor. Lots and lots of payoffs to strong cooperation among genetically similar individuals. You know, all the stuff Rushton talking about, all the stuff Frank salter has talked about, ethnic genetic interest, that sort of thing, these are the hallmarks of a species that is under very, very strong group selection. Both Wilson's Ds, Wilson Eowin and others who have looked at human ecology, who have looked at the ecology of other cooperative breeding insects, they have shown mathematically that there stunning parallels, between the fitness functions that govern those colonies and the fitness functions that that govern human population.

 So we are a group selected species, and this is very important because it means we're easy to bugger up. So we are essentially, in a situation where our ecology is every bit as sensitive to the disruptive effects of these mutations, which inhibit or subvert these normal patterns of social epistasis, which are used as guides for development. We're vulnerable. And it follows that the more positive, the more complex the human society is, the easier it is for small changes to bugger it up. 
 
 What's more is is when you have a population that's under strong group selections, you look historically at great empires. For example, we have a paper by roy coming out soon with quite a prominent journal. We test a lot of these models, comparing the relative corporate fitness of the british empire and the french empire, the british wins, but the way it wins, ecologically is extremely interesting. We show that its success comes at the expense of the group level success of the french, to the point where the british start to outnumber the french three to one, if you look at the extended fitness of their their corporate fitness as a sort of an extended ethnic group. So if you go back to a point in time where we were in imperial competition and have this scramble for various parts of the world, and you had all these different players, you can see these dynamics, the group selection dynamics, of even more starkly present, essentially. 
 
 And this means that when you look at these populations, what you're really looking at there is a super organism. You're looking at something with very high division of labor control, what Kevin Mcdonald refers to as cultural controls. He has this very interesting line of work on, I think he calls the dual process of culture. And he talks of the dual process, theory of culture. He talks about how humans have these innate, implicit processing systems...
 
 Humans are evolved through being equipped with these specialized, what he calls effortful control system processing systems. So they could be things like general intelligence, or the general factor of personality. He thinks these are more likely to relate to personality, conscientiousness specifically. I think it's for gfp, we have a disagreement on this. But these explicit processing, effortful processing systems, what they allow you to do is to identify and track norms within a culture and to align yourself with norms. They also allow you to engage in competition over the construction and dissemination of those noise. And if you look at a lot of history as being competition over the control of culture, cultural generation, then it makes a lot of sense when you frame that within the context the group selection. Because they're what you're looking at is a situation in which there are certain facets of the group which are needed right to solve cooperation problems. How do you make it so that people do as they're told and do what's good for the group? You need to, you need your leadership cast to basically be promoting values. To be able to promote those values which benefit the group. And this brings us into things like religion.
 
 Religion solves the free rider problem. It engenders altruism. It engenders positive and negative ethnocentrism. It engenders martyrdom. It's the perfect sort of mechanism for for increasing annealing and binding at the group level. And it keeps people in line. So you have these topdown controls on behavior. You have this priestly, devoutly sort of leadership cast, who lead by example, have all these aristocratic virtues, etc, etc. And they are optimized for competition when there is such a group, once it's in that mode, is highly optimized in terms of intergroup and intergroup competition will eventuate from this, because such groups typically are expansionistic, and they'll bump into each other and they'll get into fights.
 
 And that's what happened for most of human history, up until very recently, up until Pax Britannica, basically. And maybe a little bit beyond with world wars one and two. But the issue is this, what happens, okay, when your leadership cast, your high iq, highly socially effective Individuals, the sort of people who go on and take leadership roles in the population? What happens when their genomes are burdened with what happens when their genomes are burned with spiteful mutations? What happens when you have all these followers around them? In the broader social bronff and berenner circles. You've got the microsystem, the meso system, the macro system, the exosystem, etc, those people who are further removed from them in terms of bio, you know, bioecological distance. Who are nonetheless still reliant upon those cues to leadership. And their leadership, instead of promoting the virtues of religion and the one true church and, you know, godliness and purity and all this sort of thing, are promoting individualism instead, or promoting an egalitarian, sort of centric ideology, as opposed to one which places, places a premium on authority.
 
 I'm looking at Haidt's model here sampling across his moral foundations. What happens when you start switching away from those binding moral foundations to those individualistic moral foundations. Such an elite may, by virtue of circumstance, have genomes which are more burdened with these spiteful mutations, and that, to a certain extent, their behavior may result from having those spiteful mutations. Well, what it does is it damages the whole of the society.