---
layout:     post
title:      Stellar colonization
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - civilizational-declension
---

Colonizing other planets may break the g cycle because there will be so many distinct civic sieves, and someone would always be ascending. If so, how far could civilization go? Could a martian society go from a highly advanced one to a medieval one?

Well, it's more likely to become an extinct one if the uh, ecosystem is contingent upon constant human adjustment and finetuning and technological control, especially the ability to maintain that breaks down, then they die. They all die, right? Because humans can't live on the surface of mars. However, on an earthlike planet, with an earthlike atmosphere and presumably an earth like life chemistry, where you can eat things without killing you, or touch things even without them killing you. Then you you could have these sort of civilizational cycles playing out over the eons. It's entirely possible. And indeed, I think that's a more likely sort of scenario for longterm stellar colonization than any other. 

I suspect that we're going to be if we do ever get out to the starts, and it won't be any time in the next couple of hundred years, and certain, but if we do break out, essentially then we are, we're looking at a situation where things are going to be very slow. Things are going to whether there's going to be no empires or anything, everything's going to be restricted to sublight travel and communication. I don't we're never going to get warp drive or anything like that, which is a shame, because Kubia's maths are so goodlooking. If only you had exotic matter. So I i think the civilizational cycles playing out across the eons is more likely to be the case than not.

And I think, I also think there might be technological plateaus, just points at which civilizations don't really get they don't really go beyond that. For example, understanding the nature of consciousness might be. I think it's completely beyond us. For whatever reason. We never, we're never able to recreate it artificially. We're never able to cheat death through creation of artificial consciousness, or the uploading of minds into machines or something. It might be the best, just completely beyond us. So we're stuck in the kind of organic cycle.

Also, I wonder, as i've said before, if it's just the nature of intelligence, that as intelligence gets higher and higher, as G gets higher and higher, the abilities become more and more narrow and people seem to become at some point disinterested in having children, particularly if the environment's good, which it will be if the intelligence of society is high. And so there's a natural limit on intelligence. You can't get above a certain level of intelligence, because if you do, people just stop having children as a among the more intelligent in the society. And said always collapses, which is good from evolutionary perspective, because what evolution is concerned about is the survival of the species, not whether the species goes into space or does stellar warp drive or whatever. The species will die out if it becomes too intelligent for its environment.