---
layout:     post
title:      Never ever apologise for controversies
date:       2022-02-20 12:32:18
summary:    
tags:
 - politics
---

Why did Eric lander not stick up for James Watson? Does he really think he's a despicable person for getting a Nobel Prize? Or is he just scared of being a nonperson as Watson became?

Eric lander, this is in 2016, he toasted James Watson. And then the social media tour for his 90th birthday. This was and then I said, I was asked to toast James Watson last week for his role in the human genome on the occasion his 90th birthday. He said, in an email and people have called him out on twitter, on social media, that it was wrong to do this. He said, I'm sorry and,  Michael Eisen, who I think i've heard of before, he's quite a bad egg, said, on social media, since everyone is aware of how awful a human Jim Watson is, and therefore doesn't appreciate how utterly revolting it is eric Lander, for entirely selfserving reasons, shows celebrate him. Read his account of his 2000 talk at U.c. Berkeley

I'm afraid my conclusion is that, uh, quite obviously, this Eric Lambda person was under pressure on social media and caved in and is a coward. And I'm afraid we get people. When they're put in tough situations, you show your true colors. Eric Lander, I don't think, really thinks that James Watson's despicable, but he was under pressure, and he wasn't strong enough. That's my conclusion.

The other thing I say is never apologize, ever, under any circumstances. As a matter of fact, Noah Carl and I just, we had a paper which just came out with intelligence, in which we, we looked at the history of controversies in the field of intelligence research, and we rank to all of the researchers who've been involved in controversies in order of at least the most controversial. And I'm like number 56 or something out of 60 or something. So that's my ranking. Let's try. Jensen is number one. Yeah, I have to try harder next time. 

But basically, the one thing we note in this paper, and this was actually something we weren't going to put in the paper originally, but one of the reviewers kind of insisted on it, is that we particularly is that we basically gave advice to people who get involved in controversies. And one of the bits of advice we gave is, never, ever, ever apologize. Because there is solid scientific evidence, like studies done looking at sort of almost like priming kind of studies, where you you, you give people controversial statements, and then you tell them the person behind those statements has apologized. When you give them to another group and you tell them that the person hasn't apologized, you get them to sort of rate the person. And the people who apologize are always ranked as despicable. They're always ranked as despicable. The reason is because of in apologizing for what they have done, by refusing to take responsibility for their words, especially when there's no, nothing objectively wrong with what they're saying. Um, what they are in essence doing is they're giving ammunition. They're making it look like they're guilty. It's like a confession of guilt, almost. And all it does is make things worse. So it is the worst possible strategy to persue 

And also, they're bullies. I mean, that's the thing that that must always be remembered. These people that pursue these things are just nasty bullies that are that are trying to in a power game. And if you apologize, then you you show weakness. You show they've got to you. So they're bullies, and they need to be treated like bullies. Never apologize. Never be sorry when we're not sorry for telling the truth. 

We're not sorry for offending people. I'm not sorry. I'm not I don't say, well, this is my view, and I'm sorry i've they feel. I'm sorry. I'm not sorry. If you're, if you're offended, I'm not sorry. If you're offended, then you've probably got some sort of personality disorder or something like that. There's something wrong with you, so you should go to a doctor. I'm not sorry.